JPMorgan Chase made very good progress in 2006. We earned $13.6 billionfrom continuing operations, up significantly from the year before; we grewour major businesses – and the growth was high quality; and we positionedourselves extremely well for 2007 and beyond.In this letter, I will review and assess our 2006 performance and describe keyinitiatives and issues we are focusing on this year and in the future to makeour company even better. I hope, after reading this letter, that you will sharemy enthusiasm about the emerging power and enormous potential of theJPMorgan Chase franchise.First, let’s look at 2006: . OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2006: PROGRESSAND RENEWED FOCUSAt JPMorgan Chase, we analyze our performance againsta broad spectrum of measures, including growth, quality,risk management, marketing, collaboration, operations,controls and compliance. We continue to make significantprogress on all these fronts. Although our absolute performanceis not yet where it should be, the pace and levelof improvement are extremely good and make us moreconfident than ever about our future.Starting with “financial performance,” we believe thereare six key aspects of our overall 2006 performance thatillustrate the progress we have made.Strengthened financial performanceOur earnings from continuing operations for the yearwere $13.6 billion, up from $8.3 billion in 2005.Return on equity (excluding goodwill) was 20% versus13%. Revenue growth – almost all organic – was 14%.These results, produced with the support of a still-favorablecredit environment, are good, but not excellent.And in some cases, we still trail our major competitors.While we’re not yet top-tier in financial performance, wefeel particularly good about a number of major issues.We essentially completed a huge, complex merger whilestaying focused on business and pursuing growth; wedramatically cut expenses and waste; and we increasedinvestment spending. Integration risk – the potential tosuffer major setbacks because of merger-related issues –is always a big challenge and source of concern. Butsuperb execution throughout 2005 and 2006 hasenabled us to put that risk mostly behind us.Increased management discipline and collaborationUltimately, we will succeed or fail based upon the talent,dedication and diligence of our management team andthe people who work with them. On this measure, you,our shareholders, should be extremely pleased. Yourmanagement team regularly reviews all aspects of ourbusiness in an open and honest way, assessing ourstrengths and weaknesses, and our opportunities andrisks. The level of collaboration among business units ishigher than ever and still getting better. Our top managerswork well together, respect each other and takepride in each other’s successes. As I have stressed in priorshareholder letters, getting people to work togetheracross all business units is critical to our success. Here are some examples of what we can achieve byworking well together. In all of these cases, the managementteam came together – to review facts and criticallyanalyze and reanalyze issues – in order to find the rightanswers for our clients and our company. We developedand executed a game plan without the destructive politics,silly game-playing and selfish arguments about revenue-sharing that can destroy healthy collaboration andundermine progress.Establishing the Corporate BankPreviously, our investment bankers played the lead rolein managing our firm’s relationships with large clients,even when a client might require non-investment-bankingproducts and services, such as cash management,custody, asset management, certain credit and derivativesproducts, and others. The product salespeople outsideour Investment Bank operated somewhat independentlyfrom the investment bankers. As a result, we were notmanaging our relationships with many of our largestclients in an integrated and coordinated way. Too manypeople were selling their own products without feelingaccountable for JPMorgan Chase’s overall relationshipwith the client.Now, we have addressed this issue with dedicatedcorporate bankers who cover the treasurer’s offices of ourlargest, longest-standing and most important clients.These corporate bankers, in partnership with our investmentbankers, are focused on developing our entire relationshipwith our clients – orchestrating the coverageeffort with regular account planning, client reviews andcoordinated calling. This effort ultimately should addhundreds of millions of dollars to revenue and createhappier clients.Building the mortgage business – in Home Lending andthe Investment BankHome Lending is one of the largest originators and servicersof mortgages in the United States. Separately, ourInvestment Bank has been working hard to build out itsmortgage capabilities as the mortgage business overallhas been undergoing fundamental change, i.e., mortgagesare increasingly being packaged and sold to institutionalinvestors rather than being held by the companythat originates them.Historically, our two businesses, Home Lending andthe Investment Bank, barely worked together. In 2004,almost no Home Lending mortgages were sold throughour Investment Bank. This past year, however, ourInvestment Bank sold 95% of the non-agency mortgages(approximately $25 billion worth) originated by HomeLending. As a result, Home Lending materially increasedits product breadth and volume because it could distributeand price more competitively. This arrangementobviously helped our sales efforts, and the InvestmentBank was able to build a better business with a clear,competitive advantage. In 2006, our Investment Bankmoved up several places in the league-table rankings formortgages. (Importantly, Home Lending maintained itshigh underwriting standards; more on this later.) Webelieve that we now have the opportunity to become oneof America’s best mortgage companies.Growing credit card sales through retail branchesIn 2006, we opened more than one million credit cardaccounts through our retail branches, up 74% over2005. Retail and Card Services teams drove this progressby working together and analyzing every facet of thebusiness, including product design, marketing, creditreporting, systems and staffing. It started slowly, but aswe’ve learned together and innovated, we’ve been able toadd increasingly more profitable new accounts. We havethe ability to provide – almost instantaneously – preapprovedcredit to customers while they are opening otherbanking accounts with us. And, while respecting customerprivacy, we now can offer better pricing becausewe can underwrite using both credit card and retailcustomer information. Over time, this competitiveadvantage will enable us to add more value and producebetter results for customers and for JPMorgan Chase.Approaching Asia holisticallyOur Operating Committee members traveled to Asialate last year and reviewed how we were doing, country-by-country. The reviews spanned all lines of business.This process shed new light on our businesses, sharpenedour focus on ways we could work together to improveperformance and strengthened our resolve to executeaggressively. This year, the business plans in each countryare not only appropriately more ambitious, but alsobetter coordinated and fully supported by the rest of thecompany. As this effort is replicated in other parts of theworld, we are confident it will strengthen our operationsand opportunities.Working better togetherThere are plenty of other examples where good collaborationhas made us better. Our Commercial Banking clientslast year generated over $700 million of investment bankingrevenue, up 30% from 2005. The merger made thispossible by bringing top-tier Investment Bank productsto an extensive Commercial Banking customer base. Inaddition, our Treasury & Securities Services group does asignificant amount of business with our CommercialBanking client base. Our Asset Management group callson Commercial Banking and Investment Bank customers,and works with investment bankers to identify clients whocan benefit from our private banking services. Clientsacross all of our businesses use our branches. We can usethis kind of disciplined and collaborative approach acrossour businesses to continue to build on the distinctivestrength of our extensive capabilities and relationships.Achieved quality growth, driving future growthIt’s easy to grow short-term earnings: just stop investingin your company’s future and compromise yourstandards on accepting new clients and business.We won’t do that.Virtually all of our businesses achieved real, healthygrowth. You can see this described more fully in thepages ahead, so I’ll just reflect on a few key items.• Our goal is to accomplish real, sustainable growth, butnot growth at any cost. In the financial services world,it is easy to stretch for growth by reducing underwritingstandards or taking on increasingly higher levels of risk.But such an approach is foolish longer term. For example,last year we declined to underwrite negative amortizationmortgage loans and option adjustable-rate mortgages.That may have hurt our 2006 earnings a bit, butwe believe it was the right decision for the company.• We’re growing our earnings, but not at the expense ofsmart, longer-term investments. We continue to investin the areas that drive future growth, such as 125 newretail branches last year, 900 additional salespeople inbranches, 65 new private bankers to serve our ultrahigh-net-worth clients and stronger trading businessesin mortgages, energy and other commodities.• Where it made sense, we went outside our companyand acquired great assets and businesses, such as theswap of our Corporate Trust business for 339 Bank ofNew York retail branches and the bank’s commercialbanking business. We also did smaller deals to supplementour student loan, hedge fund processing, assetmanagement, trading and credit card businesses.• These investments are not confined to the front office.We’ve invested hundreds of millions of dollars innew and improved systems, which I will discuss next.While there’s a short-term cost for these investments,there’s a long-term benefit of increased efficiency andimproved quality.Materially improved infrastructure and cost structureWe continued a massive investment plan in our systemsand operating infrastructure while simultaneouslyreducing expenses.• We completed major consolidations and mergers ofour platforms: retail (deposit and teller), wholesaleloan and Internet. We have built or are building six new data centers,and are upgrading and consolidating the more than20 centers that we had three years ago. Through thiseffort, we’re significantly enhancing our data networksstorage and information technology risk capabilities.• Virtually all of our businesses improved their marginswhile investing for the future. The single-most salientcost reduction came in our Corporate line. You mayrecall that in 2004 we said we would maintain atCorporate all of what we deemed to be “inefficientcosts,” i.e., costs borne by the businesses withoutreceiving commensurate benefits and costs that weredramatically higher than they should have been.Examples included vacant real estate, outdated datacenters, information technology costs that were sometimestwo to three times what they should have been,or staff support costs that were simply too high.We moved these costs to Corporate so we could:a) see what the businesses were really earning; b) bringinto sharp relief these Corporate expenses and putpressure on ourselves to reduce them; and c) hold thebusinesses accountable for clearly defined costs thatthey could control.Well, it worked. “Unallocated Corporate Overhead”was $2.4 billion in 2005, was $750 million in 2006and is expected to be $200 million to $400 millionin 2007.Improved risk managementTo be a great company, we must excel at risk managementacross all of our businesses – consumer, commercialand wholesale. We understand that some risks, orcorrelations of risks, are often unknowable, or whenknowable, unpredictable as to timing. Later, I will talkabout some of these risks we face going forward, buthere I will simply review 2006. We think we did a fairlygood job overall, though there are some areas – especiallyrelated to mortgage servicing rights – where we areworking to do significantly better.• Both consumer and wholesale credit performed well.More important, we stuck to certain disciplines thatnow are serving us well. We made judgment calls thatreduced revenue and often appeared very conservative.And where we chose to underwrite subprime mortgages,we adhered to strict underwriting standards.We sold almost all of our 2006 subprime mortgageoriginations, but retained our capacity to hold suchmortgages when we believe that it is more financiallyprudent to do so.• Our Private Equity investments are now about$6 billion, a very comfortable 9% of tangible equity,down from more than 20% in 2003. We think ourteams in this business are doing an outstanding joband believe we have many good opportunities togrow our Private Equity business.• We successfully managed the interest-rate cycle tominimize its impact on results. We took action basedupon constant analysis and back-testing of interest-ratemoves in each and every product. More important, wehave tried (and continue to try) to balance our exposuresso that extreme rate moves (which didn’t happenin 2006) don’t hurt us significantly. So while flat orslightly inverted yield curves may squeeze margins forus (as they do for our competitors), we are not thatconcerned about it. Our big concern is to protect ourcompany from major rate changes.• We materially improved the quality, consistency andlevel of our trading results – a major focus in 2006.And we specifically mean results versus trading volatility.We want to earn a better average return on capitalwith growing revenue. We will accept more volatility,but we must be paid for the risk we’re taking throughincreased revenue. In 2006 we did a bit of both.Volatility was down while trading revenue was upsubstantially, by almost $3 billion. Our Investment Bank management team accomplishedthis improved risk management by: a) successfullybuilding out new trading capabilities, such as mortgageand energy, which helped diversify trading risk;b) regular reporting and reviews, particularly of largerisk positions; c) increasing focus and accountability onspecific trading risk; and d) more actively managingoverall exposures.• We clearly can do better on Mortgage Servicing Rights(MSRs) than we did in 2006. MSRs are the presentvalue of net revenue estimated to be received for servicingmortgages, i.e., billing and collecting. We serviceover $525 billion of mortgages, and our MSR isvalued on our balance sheet at about $7.5 billion. It isa volatile, assumption-based asset that can swing invalue from quarter to quarter, even when fully hedged.As we previously reported, our MSR asset and relatedhedges posted losses of almost $400 million in 2006,which is unacceptable. As a result, we’ve spent a lot oftime improving our models to make them far moresophisticated and drilling down to examine repaymentissues and other factors – state-by-state and productby-product. We’ve worked closely with our InvestmentBank to incorporate the best from all the models.It is essential we get this right, and we’ve made goodprogress. We think we’re about 80% there. How wevalue and manage this asset will be either a competitivestrength or weakness. Our degree of success is a keyeconomic variable that can help us originate anddistribute loans more inexpensively. Companies thatmanage MSRs incorrectly will give back a lot ofpreviously booked profits. But companies that get itright – and we intend to be one of them – will havea huge competitive advantage in an extremely price competitivebusiness.Picked up the paceAll in all, we feel that we’ve made about as much progressas we could have in 2006. As we move toward our finalmajor merger-related integration – the conversion of ourNew York wholesale platform later this year – we aredeclaring the merger of JPMorgan Chase and Bank Oneto be essentially complete. So we are – in the best sense ofthe phrase – back to business as usual. And that is whereyou want us to be.Back to business as usual means we are moving beyondworking on major, one-off integration projects, and we arelooking more and more to the future. We’ll continue tofocus on all the basics, like people and systems and complianceand audit, as well as waste-cutting and bureaucracy-busting. But we can also look clearly to the future andfocus on initiatives that will set us apart by acceleratinggrowth and helping us achieve excellent financial results.Our confidence is strong in our ability to do this becausethe teams that have already accomplished so much aresimply updating their mission.We are striving for sustained financial performance,including revenue growth, better margins and returnson capital that compare favorably with the best ofour competitors.Finally, back to business as usual means that while we arerunning our businesses better and generating good organicgrowth, we are also receptive to the mergers and acquisitionsthat make sense for shareholders. To be viable, theseopportunities must clear three important hurdles: theprice must be right, the business logic must be compellingand our ability to execute must be strong. It is on thislast point that many deals fail, and it is on this last pointthat we now have confidence, earned by what we havealready accomplished.The ability to execute a merger is a key strength that we donot want to squander on a bad transaction. We do notintend to do anything that is not in our shareholders’interest. We are patient, our internal opportunities aboundand our prospects are good without any acquisitions. I I . LOOKING AHEAD: KEY INITIATIVESAND ISSUESThere are six important initiatives or issues we are tacklingto help us become what we truly want to be – aconsistently high-performing, highly respected financialservices company.Improving quality and serviceNow that our merger work and consolidations aremainly done, we are turning more attention to improvingquality and service – from front to back. We meanthis in an all-encompassing way, whether it’s a customer’sexperience with a teller, straight-through processing,improved operations, call center performance, betterautomated cross-selling or dozens of other areas. Thisapplies to anything that affects the customer – andanything that makes it easier or better for our peopleservicing the customer. It includes cutting down onerrors, which cost our company money, slow us downand annoy the customer.The outcome, we are convinced, will be happier customersand lower attrition, more cross-selling and lowercosts associated with more automation and fewer problems.The good news is that we have the focus, the willand the people to do this. They’re the same ones whoalready have delivered so much throughout our mergerwork and consolidations.Raising productivityWhile over the past few years we have devoted significantattention to waste-cutting and cost reduction, weare now focusing more broadly on productivity overall.An example would be how we assess the effectiveness ofa sales force. A sales force might have the right numberof salespeople and the right products, but productivitycould still be enhanced in multiple ways: more salesper salesperson; more sales from new products or oldproducts; same sales but higher profitability per sale; orsame sales and same profits, but deeper relationshipswith customers.To achieve consistently high margins and returns relativeto the competition, we need to achieve high levels ofproductivity everywhere and every step of the way –at every business unit, in every branch, with everysales force, in all of our systems programming unitsand across all our product marketing. Any company,including ours, can lose focus or be sloppy in managingproductivity at these levels. Here are a few examplesof how we have improved productivity:• Investment Bank: We determined that our bankers inthe United States were covering too many clients, andit is expensive simply to cover a client. While revenueper banker was adequate, our product penetration perclient was too low. So we reduced the number ofclients each banker covers, and the results should bevery positive: the client should end up getting moreattention, the banker should do more business with theclient, and our revenue should go up. Since we alreadyhad a complete product set for bankers to sell, andbecause there are increasingly more companies thatneed our services, it was a no-brainer to add bankers.The Investment Bank this year is also intensifyingits focus on reducing middle-office and back-officesupport costs. Our non-compensation expenses are toohigh, and as the Investment Bank has developed betterfinancial management tools, we’re better equipped toattack these excessive support costs. We believe thatthese excess costs could be as much as $500 million.• Credit card marketing: Last year we did a good jobreducing our costs of attracting, opening and servicingnew credit card accounts. But to maximize opportunities,we need to become better at matching products tocustomers; differentiating between the profitability ofnew branch-generated accounts versus those generatedacross other channels, such as the Internet; determiningwhat other business we should be doing with thenew card holder; and ensuring that our current cardholders have the right products and rewards programs.We already have made good strides: Cards withrewards programs are now 53% of our card outstandings,up from 32% in 2003. And accounts generatedfrom direct-mail solicitations, which often come withlow introductory rates (and higher attrition rates), aredown to 32% from 55% in 2003. We have muchmore work to do to continue this progress.• Commercial Banking sales force management: NowCommercial Banking rigorously tracks resultsand profitability by banker and by client. We haveour bankers work with their clients to ensure that allclients are profitable to the firm and that all clientsbenefit from their relationship with the firm.• New products in Commercial Banking: This past yearCommercial Banking continued to expand its productoffering. It added subordinated debt, mezzanine financingand even equity investing. We already had the clients.They just were going elsewhere for these products.• Private Bank: We’re making it easier for qualified individualsto do business with us, beginning with howthey open new Private Bank accounts. In the past, theyhad to review at least six different documents and signmultiple times just to start working with us. Now, anew customer usually fills out only a one-page formand signs it only once. Everyone’s happier, and we savesome trees.Increasing marketing creativity and focusOur company needs to become better at marketing.And by marketing we don’t mean more television ads ordirect mail solicitations. We mean taking a sophisticatedapproach to identifying a group of customers, figuringout what they need and then delivering it to them betterthan anyone else. The opportunities are significant. Wehave multiple efforts under way, and we want to giveyou a few examples of them.Develop a better offering for affluent clientsWe believe we do a very good job serving our ultrahigh-net-worth clients – those with more than $25million of investable assets. But we can do a lot morefor the hundreds of thousands of affluent householdsthat fall below that ultra-high threshold.Whether through our retail branches, our card businessor our Private Client Services unit, we interact with tensof thousands of very wealthy individuals every day. Butin many cases, we haven’t identified them as affluent, orwe haven’t focused on providing them with the right setof products that is tailored to meet their unique needs.In 2007, we intend to do a comprehensive analysis ofthis affluent market, and then develop and begin to executea game plan. The likely result will be better identificationof affluent clients, solutions and rewards programsthat cut across multiple products, more tailoredproducts, and specialized marketing and servicing.Use customer knowledge to refine products, upgrade serviceOur customers trust us and give us a lot of informationso we can know them better. While respecting a customer’sprivacy, we can use this information to makebetter-informed decisions about what to offer customersand how to evaluate them.We’ve already mentioned how we can instantaneouslyoffer an approved credit card to customers while they areopening a checking account. We can also underwrite thecredit better, i.e., offer more competitive pricing basedupon our proprietary knowledge of the customer. We’reworking on many other similar initiatives where ourknowledge of the customer pre-emptively positions us inbusinesses such as home equity, mortgage, auto, creditcard, retail branches and small business.Coordinate outreach to specific groupsThere are many different subsets of customers we servewho would appreciate and benefit from a coordinatedapproach to their specific needs.One clear example involves universities. Surprisingly,we had not coordinated our outreach to this lucrativemarket. Retail opened student checking accounts;Education Finance made student loans; Card Servicesissued credit cards to students and alumni; CommercialBanking financed schools and serviced cash managementneeds; and our Asset Management group managed universityfunds. We’re fixing this by working on a synchronizedeffort where a specialized sales team can offer a fully coordinatedpackage more effectively and more efficiently.Expanding to serve consumers outside the United StatesInternational consumer expansion is not without risk.So one of our first objectives has been to add seniorindividuals to our talent pool who are knowledgeableand experienced in the international consumer area. Inaddition, we are now analyzing and developing country-specificstrategies so that we can focus our efforts on themost important opportunities. We are fortunate to havedeveloped strong relationships and partnerships over theyears, so we have people and companies we trust and canrely upon for advice and access to investment opportunitiesaround the world.There are some essential principles supporting this effortthat we want our shareholders to understand.• Because restrictions on acquisitions – and other lawsand regulations – differ by country, our approach mustdiffer by country. In some areas, we may acquirepartial interests or controlling stakes in companies,while in others we may start de novo.• We will not stretch excessively to make investments.We believe that in many parts of the world, it is notnecessary to feel desperate, as if the opportunities willexist only for a fleeting moment. We believe that asJPMorgan Chase grows and strengthens, its opportunitieswill increase. We also believe that in five to 10 years,as some countries develop and change, new and excitingopportunities will emerge. For example, to the extentthat we would consider a merger or acquisition inEurope, there are likely to be many more pan-Europeanbanks to choose from in the future. In China or India,we might be allowed to buy a controlling interest in abank. The set of options available to my successor willbe dramatically different from and possibly superiorto the current set of options. With that in mind, thebest thing I can do for her or him is pass on a strongJPMorgan Chase.Managing critical risksThe first half of this letter mentions that we were fairlypleased with how we managed risk in 2006. But managingrisk is a constant challenge. We never stop worryingabout it. Before discussing some specific risk issues, webelieve you should be able to take some comfort fromthese key facts:• Our profit margins have increased substantially, creatingour best cushion for risk.• Our balance sheet is strong and getting stronger.Tier I Capital at the end of 2006 was 8.7%, and evenwith stock buybacks, it should stay strong because ofour improving capital generation.• Our loan loss reserves are strong, at 1.7% for bothconsumer and wholesale at the end of 2006. Here are some specific risk issues:Challenges in the credit worldWe continuously analyze and measure our risk. In fact,during budget planning, we ask our management teamsto prepare – on all levels – for difficult operating environments.While the risk comes in many forms, such asrecession, market turmoil and geopolitical turbulence,one of our largest risks is still the credit cycle. Creditlosses, both consumer and wholesale, have been extremelylow, perhaps among the best we’ll see in our lifetimes.We must be prepared for a return to the norm in thecredit cycle.The chart below shows a rough estimate of what couldhappen to credit costs over the business cycle – providedwe do a good and disciplined job underwriting credit.In a tougher credit environment, credit losses could risesignificantly, by as much as $5 billion over time, whichmay require increases in loan loss reserves. InvestmentBank revenue could drop, and the yield curve couldsharply invert. This could have a significant negativeeffect on JPMorgan Chase’s earnings. That said, theseevents generally do not occur simultaneously, and therewould be normal mitigating factors for our earnings(e.g., compensation pools likely would go down, somecustomer fees and spreads would probably go up, andfunding costs could decrease).It’s important to share these numbers with you, not toworry you, but to be as transparent as possible about thepotential impact of these negative scenarios and to let youknow how we are preparing for them. We do not knowexactly what will occur or when, but we do know that badthings happen. There is no question that our company’searnings could go down substantially. But if we are prepared,we can both minimize the damage to our companyand capitalize on opportunities in the marketplace.Subprime mortgages: the good, the bad and possiblythe uglyTHE GOODWe did a lot of things right:• We did not originate option ARMs or other negativeamortization loans.• We applied the same underwriting standards to allof our subprime loans, whether originated by us orpurchased from third parties.• We sold substantially all of our 2006 subprime originations.(We underwrite all of our subprime loans to beheld; in fact, we prefer to hold and service these mortgages,but prices at the time of sale were too good topass up.)• We were very careful in certain parts of the UnitedStates and were especially careful to seek accurateproperty appraisals. THE BAD• Default rates were still higher than we had predicted.• In hindsight, when underwriting subprime, we couldhave been even more conservative and less sensitive tomarket and competitor practices. We’ve now materiallytightened certain underwriting standards on subprimemortgages.• We don’t expect that losses on our subprime loanswould go up by more than about $150 million – notso bad, but we prefer it weren’t so.POSSIBLY THE UGLYWe do not yet know the ultimate impact of recent industryexcesses and mismanagement in the subprime market.Bad underwriting practices probably extended into manymortgage categories. As government officials investigatethe market and losses mount, the industry is tighteningunderwriting standards by reducing loan-to-value ratiosand using more conservative property values. There willbe more due diligence on incomes and credit quality.More rigid standards increase foreclosures and make itmore difficult to buy homes. This will lead to a lowernumber of sales and a reduction in home values.The good news is this is happening in a healthy job environment,which is still the most important determinant ofgood consumer credit. The subprime business is a greatexample of what happens when something good (the abilityto help a lot more people buy homes) is taken toexcess. Even so, we still believe that subprime mortgagescould be a very good business, and that when it all sortsout, we will be well-positioned.Enhancing our corporate social responsibility standardsLast year we wrote to you about how our company is acaring and generous institution. We try to help all of thecommunities in which we operate. We do this in multipleways, ranging from charitable giving and diversityinitiatives to the promotion of economic opportunityand development. This year, we are working to makethese efforts more meaningful and to become moresocially responsible in a variety of ways, including severaldescribed below:We strive to be fair and ethical in our business practices• A strong set of principles guides our actions andinforms our decisions. We demand that our executivesbehave in accordance with these principles.• We are dedicated to high-quality, responsibly marketedproducts and services.• We continually innovate and work to improve thequality of life for our clients and communities.We are helping to protect the environmentLast year, we took a number of important steps in thiscritical area:• We raised $1.5 billion of equity for the wind powermarket, with approximately $650 million allocated toour own portfolio. Since its inception in 2003, ourrenewable energy portfolio has invested in 26 windfarms, now totaling approximately $1 billion.• We published a series of corporate research reportsconcerning business and environmental linkages,including legal and regulatory risks related to climatechange, and issues and opportunities in biofuels andthe ethanol market.• We trained more than 100 bankers globally to betterimplement our environmental and social risk policy.• We completed our U.S. greenhouse gas emissionsbaseline, increased our investments in energy-efficientprojects, and purchased renewable energy credits(green energy).• We began building several green bank branches andare seeking Leadership in Energy and EnvironmentalDesign certification for the renovation of our worldheadquarters. We plan to continue the momentum with the followingsteps:• We are strengthening our team to better manage theenvironmental and social risks within our deal flow.• We are increasing our investments in energy-efficientprojects as part of our commitment to reduce ourgreenhouse gas emissions.• We are strengthening our efforts to offer clients productsand services that help them reduce their greenhousegas emissions.• We are continuing to advance the public policy debateon the environmental effectiveness and economicefficiency of greenhouse gas emission reductions.We are deepening our community involvement• We intend to work more closely with governmentofficials, regulators, communities and responsiblethird parties to improve both public policy andour company.• Our philanthropic investment program is strategicallyfocused on enhancing life in the communities we serve.In 2006, JPMorgan Chase invested more than $110million in nearly 500 cities across 33 nations. In addition,we reinvigorated our strategic focus toward fundingorganizations and programs that are addressing themost pressing needs in our communities.• In 2007, the JPMorgan Chase Foundation is takinga disciplined approach to helping our customers,employees, shareholders and neighbors in three criticalneed areas we call Live, Learn, and Thrive. In “Live,”we focus on basic needs, such as housing, job training,financial literacy and social inclusion. The area we call“Learn” focuses on helping young people succeed in theeducation process, from birth through higher education,especially in impoverished areas. To help our communities“Thrive,” we support vital environmental, arts andcultural institutions and initiatives. This year, we arelaunching our “Community Renaissance Initiative” ineight key U.S. markets, dedicating a large percentage ofour philanthropic funding, energy and expertise to substantiallystrengthen high-need neighborhoods.III. A FEW CLOSING COMMENTSCorporate governance: Board of DirectorsI believe your Board is functioning extremely well. Itsmembers are totally engaged in and dedicated to setting– and meeting – the highest standards of governance.Discussions about our people, our strategies,our opportunities, our priorities and our obligationsare open and substantive. The quality and productivityof these conversations should be even better as wereduce the size of the Board to about 12 members.Compensation and ownershipWhile our Proxy Statement describes our philosophy indetail, I’d like to note here the key underpinnings of ourcompensation system: a) we believe a substantial portionof compensation should be tied to performance, particularlyfor senior employees; b) an ownership stake in thefirm best aligns our employees’ and shareholders’ interests;c) compensation should be market-based; and d) we strivefor long-term orientation both in the way we assessperformance and in the way we structure compensation.In addition, it’s important to note some specifics:• Your senior executive team received 50% of theirincentive compensation in restricted stock units thatvest over time.• Your senior management team must keep 75% of allthe stock they acquire from restricted stock units andoption exercises until they leave the firm. I have heldall of my stock compensation and plan to continuedoing so. We have minimized personalperquisites, and have been particularlyvigilant when it comes toclub dues, car allowances andfinancial planning services.• We believe pay should relate tobuilding a company with sustainedgood performance. Thereis no magic in a single quarter oryear, and we try to recognize whena friendly market, rather thanexcellent performance, lifts results.• We provide senior managers limited pension anddeferred-compensation programs. Also, we do notmatch the 401(k) plan contributions of our highest paidemployees, while we provide that benefit formost other U.S. employees.• To recognize their hard work and to make themowners of the company, we made a special contributionworth $400 in stock to the 401(k) accountsof eligible lower-paid employees (and a comparablecash grant to similar employees outside theUnited States). This grant created about 12,100 new401(k) participants and about 17,400 new JPMorganChase shareholders. I hope they will become regular401(k) contributors and long-term investors. In all,more than 115,000 of our colleagues are nowJPMorgan Chase shareholders.A fond farewell to our dedicateddirectors and Bill HarrisonI would like to thank retiring Boardmembers John Biggs, Jack Kesslerand Richard Manoogian for theirlong and distinguished service toour company.And finally, I would like to thank BillHarrison, my friend and partner, whoretired as Chairman last year. We –and I – were blessed to have such a great, thoughtful leader.To Bill and his many great predecessors, we owe thanks forbequeathing to us this extraordinary opportunity.One last, optimistic thoughtWe have an outstanding strategic position, a great brand,strong character, fantastic employees and a remarkablefuture. I am privileged to lead this company. I don’tthink we know yet how good we can be.James DimonChairman and Chief Executive OfficerMarch 12, 2007