As I write this letter, the turbulence that began in the second half of2007 continues to wreak havoc on the financial markets today. Giventhe magnitude and unprecedented nature of events as they continue tounfold, it is a year that will be written about for a long time. We do notknow when this cycle will end or the extent of the damage it will cause.But we do know that no financial company operating under theseconditions will emerge from them unchanged. And, while we are long-termoptimists about the future of the U.S. economy and our company,we remain focused on the current crisis. In this context, I will reviewhow we performed in 2007 and how we are preparing to weather theongoing storm.I would like to start by saying how gratifying it is that JPMorgan Chase wasable to report record revenue and earnings for 2007 despite the intensecredit and capital markets issues we faced during the second half of theyear. These issues continue to confront us today, particularly in both ourInvestment Bank and home lending businesses. That said, we must beprepared for a severe economic downturn that could affect all of ourbusinesses. We intend to navigate through the turbulence, protect ourcompany and capitalize on any opportunities that present themselves.It is during these tough times that we can distinguish ourselves with ourclients. As a firm, we have a history of showing leadership during timesof financial crisis, and we will continue to build on that legacy.As you read this letter, I hope you will agree that our expectations arerational, our approach is consistent and measured, and our operatingphilosophy is sound. I also hope you will feel as I do – that while ourcompany still faces many risks in these challenging times, we willcontinue to grow our franchise, outperform many of our competitorsand win where it matters most: with customers in the marketplace. I. REVIEW OF 2007Over the past few years, we have not only worked hardto instill management discipline, but we have also spentconsiderable time and resources developing a strongfoundation for long-term growth. So when we measureour performance, we not only review financial results –by line of business and for the company overall – butwe also look at multiple indicators of health. These measureshelp us gauge the progress we have made by expandingand extending our capabilities, geographic reach,client coverage, product offerings and technology andby attracting, training and retaining talented people.Meaningful progress in any of the areas mentioned abovetakes a considerable investment of time and money.We generate both by operating efficiently and maintaininga fortress balance sheet. So, there are three intrinsicallylinked imperatives that are fundamental to our success:strong financial results, quality growth and capitalstrength. I will focus on each in the following reviewof our 2007 results.A. Financial Results by Line of BusinessWe delivered record 2007 full-year earnings of $15.4billion on record revenue of $71.4 billion. This representedtotal revenue growth of 15%, most of which wasorganic. Earnings per share – also a record at $4.38 – wereup 15% from 2006. Our return on tangible commonequity was 23%. Record or near-record earnings in manyof our businesses and the diversified nature of our companyhelped offset areas of cyclical weakness. Our results –by line of business – are reviewed below.The Investment Bank reported net income of $3.1 billionwith an ROE of 15%The Investment Bank delivered a record first half of theyear, with a return on equity (ROE) averaging about 26%.Difficult market conditions reduced our ROE to about4% for the second half of 2007. Given the natural volatilityof this business, these results are not surprising. Thatsaid, our goal remains to earn 20% ROE through a businesscycle. Ideally, this means we’ll produce ROE of 30%or higher in good years, 10% in tougher years and noworse than 0% in a particularly bad quarter. Our subjectiveassessment of how we performed in 2007 is that the26% ROE in the beginning of the year was a solid result.However, our 4% ROE in the second half of the yearcould have been better, e.g., perhaps a 7%-10% ROE. Even though we had hoped to do better, relative to theperformance of most of our competitors, many of whomsustained large losses, our Investment Bank’s results wererather good. Most of the adverse results in the secondhalf were confined to the sales and trading areas of theInvestment Bank. Within sales and trading, the majority ofthe issues were in mortgage-related trading and leveragedfinance (which we will cover in a later section). Equities,rates and currencies had excellent full-year results.We are particularly pleased to have ended the year rankedNo. 1 in investment banking fees and with an increasedmarket share in global equities and global debt. This performanceis a testament to our capital raising capabilities andthe quality of the coverage, support and advice we provide tocorporations, institutions and investors around the world.JPMorgan is now a top-ranked player in virtually every majorinvestment banking product. We are proud of this progressand are pleased to see it noted in several independent clientsurveys and reports (e.g., Institutional Investor, which ratedJPMorgan the No. 1 Investment Bank, Greenwich Researchand Risk magazine). We believe by working hard to earn ourclients’ trust, we will sustain our leadership position and buildthe best investment bank in the world.Retail Financial Services (RFS) reported net income of$3 billion with an ROE of 19%RFS, our retail bank, offers consumers and small businesseschecking and savings accounts, credit cards, mortgages,home equity and business loans, and investments acrossour 17-state footprint from New York to Arizona. We alsoprovide home lending products nationally through our5,200 loan officers and our network of brokers and correspondents.Additionally, we work with more than 14,500car dealerships to provide their customers with auto loansand with more than 5,200 colleges and universities to loanstudents the funds they need to complete their education.RFS had a good year and showed strong organic growth.For example, in 2007:• Total checking accounts grew 8% to almost 11 millionaccounts.• Business banking loans grew 9% to more than $15 billion.• Credit card and investment sales in the branches bothincreased 23%, while mortgage loans in the branchesincreased by 31%.• Mortgage loan originations grew 34% overall (evenwith much tighter underwriting standards).• Use of electronic payments rose, with more than a 20%increase in our online customer base. Nearly 6 millioncustomers now use our electronic services to bank withus – anytime, anywhere.Despite this progress, however, overall RFS earnings weredown 6% year-over-year. This was largely a function ofincreased credit costs in our home equity business and insubprime home loans (which we will describe in detaillater). However, unlike other lenders that are pulling backor closing down, we have not abandoned this business.To the contrary, while we have materially tightened ourunderwriting standards, we have also nearly doubled ourhome lending market share to 11% in the fourth quarter(up from 6% a year ago). We have done this because webelieve it is a strong, sustainable business that continuesto meet an important financial priority for many peoplethroughout this country.Card Services reported net income of $2.9 billion with anROE of 21%We are the second-largest credit card issuer in the UnitedStates, with approximately 155 million credit cards in circulation.In 2007, while growth in outstanding balanceswas relatively low at 4%, merchandise spending on ourcards increased nicely, by 9%, particularly in our co-brandedpartner and small business card portfolios. We addedmore than 16 million new accounts and raised the level ofcharge volume by $15 billion. In addition, to drive growthand better serve cardmembers, the new CEO of CardServices reorganized the business into five units: the massaffluent segment, individuals of high net worth, smallbusinesses, and co-brand and retail/private label partners.This customer-focused approach will enable us to specificallytailor products and services to meet the financialneeds of these important customer groups.While we’re pleased with our 2007 performance in CardServices, we are preparing for the impact of a weakeningeconomy on loan losses. We expect losses to increase byabout 4.5%-5% of outstanding balances from about3.7% in 2007. (In a prolonged recession, the losses couldbe considerably worse.)Commercial Banking reported net income of $1.1 billionwith an ROE of 17%Commercial Banking serves more than 30,000 customersacross America, including corporations, municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities.Commercial Banking produced record revenue, up 8%,and record profits, up 12%, from a year ago. Loans grew14%, liability balances grew 19% and we added morethan 2,200 new banking relationships.Over the past few years – in addition to providing cashmanagement products to its customers – CommercialBanking has been able to better meet our customers’ needsby increasingly making investment banking products andservices available to them. This includes M&A advisoryand equity and debt underwriting, which are madepossible by a strong collaboration between CommercialBanking and the Investment Bank. This capability is acompetitive advantage for us. In 2005 – the year afterthe merger with Bank One – we generated about $550million in Investment Bank-related revenue through thiscross-sell opportunity. By the end of 2007, CommercialBanking had achieved record Investment Bank-relatedrevenue of about $890 million. We also launched ChaseCapital to provide equity and mezzanine debt financing toour customers to eliminate the need for them to seek suchcapital elsewhere. It is important to note that of the totalrevenue Commercial Banking generated in 2007, only35% now relates to the lending product.While we recognize the value of cross selling, we are alsokeenly aware of the risks associated with trying to drivegrowth in certain product areas. As such, we have resistedgrowth in areas where we felt inadequately compensatedfor that risk. For example, our real estate lending hasactually shrunk over the past few years and currentlyrepresents only 12% of our total loans. CommercialBanking also increased loan loss reserves by $225 million,bringing total reserves to a very strong 2.8% of averageloans at year-end.Treasury & Securities Services (TSS) reported net incomeof $1.4 billion with an ROE of 47%TSS is a business that holds, values, clears and servicessecurities and provides cash management, corporate cardand liquidity products and trade finance services to theworld’s leading companies and institutional investors. TSSdelivered exceptional financial results, with record revenue,up 14%, and record profits, up 28%. This business hasgenerated higher volume across all of its products, grownconsistently over time, produced good margins, andmaintained great global scale and long-standing clientrelationships. It is a business that would be extremely hardto duplicate. Notably, TSS assets under custody increasedby 15% to $15.9 trillion, and average liability balanceswere up 21% to about $230 billion. The group grew itsrevenue from countries outside the U.S. by more than26% over the past year. The ability to make significantprogress on this important priority reflects the strongfoundation we are building abroad. Highlights includereceiving regulatory approval to connect to China’selectronic clearing system, establishing a staff presencein 41 countries and branches in 25 countries worldwide,and extending our international capabilities for clientsaround the globe.Asset Management reported net income of $2 billionwith an ROE of 51%Asset Management provides our institutional, high-networthand individual investor clients with global investmentmanagement in equities, fixed income, real estate,hedge funds, private equity and liquidity. The headlinenumbers for Asset Management were terrific. The businessdelivered strong growth in 2007, with profits up 40% andrevenue up 27% – both record levels. Assets under managementwere up 18% (or $180 billion), driven mainlyby $115 billion of new flows, and were further fueled bymarket growth during the year. We increased alternativeassets (hedge funds, private equity, etc.) by more than20%, to end the year with $121 billion in alternativeassets under management.As the world’s largest manager of hedge funds, we grewour total hedge funds by 30% last year, including increasingassets under management in our Highbridge funds by68% in 2007. Since late 2004, when JPMorgan acquired amajority interest in Highbridge, its assets under managementhave grown from $7 billion to about $28 billion inearly 2008. In addition, the Private Bank and PrivateClient Services set a record by increasing assets undersupervision for clients by $80 billion in 2007. A note ofcaution, however: The earnings momentum of this businesshas slowed in 2008 and will continue to lag rates ofgrowth produced in prior years. Investment performance,particularly in certain fixed income and statistical arbitragefunds, was affected by the extreme conditions of the latterhalf of the year. Last summer, when the five-year bullmarket ended, we began to see a shift in our clients’ portfoliosfrom higher-yielding assets (equities and alternativeassets) to lower-yielding assets (fixed income and cash).We believe it is reasonable to assume that current marketconditions will impede Asset Management’s ability todeliver another year of record earnings in 2008.In Private Equity, we had an outstanding year withpre-tax gains of more than $4 billionOne Equity Partners (OEP) delivered stellar results in 2007.I hope you all join me in giving them our gratitude for thisbanner-year performance, in which OEP contributed twothirdsof total private equity gains. OEP has now generateda life-to-date realized internal rate of return of more than50% on its investments. We are thrilled with this achievementand happy to report the high returns of last year, butwe also appreciate that this level of performance is exceptional.As such, we do not expect it to be repeated this year.B. Leading Indicators of Real GrowthWe are committed to achieving high quality of earnings.This means consistently investing in our businesses. Thisdoes not mean increasing short-term earnings by reducinginvestments for the future. So even while our marginswent up, we continued to invest in geographic expansion,client coverage, product extensions, technology enhancements,employee development and corporate responsibility.These are areas we believe will drive good, stronggrowth in our businesses for decades to come. They arediscussed in more detail below.We expanded our footprint both internationally anddomesticallyInternationally, our growth strategy connects the wholesalebusinesses of the Investment Bank, Asset Management,Commercial Banking and TSS to deliver the right productsand services in the right way to our customers. Because welook at the world from the point of view of the customer,we rely upon a local presence and regional operating modelsto develop, bundle and provide an appropriate level offinancial support to our clients. So while one line of businesscan bring us into a market, our growth over time isintended to cut across all of these businesses.In Japan, Korea, India and China, we are using this strategyto develop and tailor our wholesale platform of productsand services across the region. From four branch locationsin China – Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin and Shenzhen –our 260 employees provide Investment Bank, TSS andAsset Management services. Commercial Banking openednew offices in Mumbai and Singapore in 2007. Our totalheadcount in Asia increased by 26% to more than 19,000employees, and our overall revenue in the region increasedby 47%. Three years ago, in mainland China, AssetManagement had no clients and no assets under management.Today, our joint venture is a top-10 asset manager inChina, with more than 5 million customers and $13 billionin assets under management. Our first Qualified DomesticInstitutional Investor product (which allowed residents inmainland China to invest overseas), launched last year, wasoversubscribed by almost four times. On the first day of theinitial public offering (IPO), it raised a record $15.4 billionfrom 1.9 million customers. We were granted licensesand launched businesses in Korea and India and endedthe year there with onshore assets under management of$700 million and $600 million, respectively.On the domestic front, Commercial Banking opened newoffices in North America, extending our presence to Atlanta,Nashville, Philadelphia, Seattle and Vancouver. We alsoopened 127 retail bank branches and added 680 ATMs and2,568 in-branch salespeople to help our customers.We increased client coverageOver the years, the Investment Bank has invested hundredsof millions of dollars in Asia and in other emergingmarkets to increase our client coverage, particularly incountries like China, India and Russia. We will now besupporting more than 500 companies in those threecountries, which will mean more research coverage, salesand trading capability, and, we anticipate, more revenue.Outside the emerging markets, we added experiencedtraders to our energy business. It is an important sectorthat continues to be a priority in 2008. We also addedmore than 200 new client advisors within the PrivateBank and Private Client Services, a substantial increaseof staff over prior years.We extended products and expanded services to bettermeet our customers’ needsTSS completed various bolt-on acquisitions to expandparts of the business, including our healthcare electronicpayment services and our U.S. fund services business,which provides fund accounting and reporting to mutualfunds of various sizes. As asset managers and pensionfunds are increasingly investing in private equity andhedge fund assets, TSS continues to build productcapabilities to support the processing of these alternativeinvestments for our clients. Over the past year, TSS hasincreased its alternative assets under administration bymore than 80%, and we will be expanding these servicesinternationally to support clients in Hong Kong, Australia,Luxembourg and the United Kingdom.Card Services continues to increase its annual spending oncredit card marketing and reward programs to build outits slate of innovative card products and refine the rewardoptions (particularly on the Chase Freedom credit card).And we continue to improve our electronic systems,payments and services that offer 24/7 access. For example,we introduced Chase Mobile, a new text messaging servicethat gives U.S. customers easy access through their phonesto account balances, payment histories and due dates.We focused on technology to improve customer service,sales, marketing and innovationIn addition to increasing the number of new bankers,branches and salespeople and as part of our commitmentto expand our products, services and international reach,we will continue to invest in technology. We believe thisinvestment will be a key driver of growth over the nextdecade. Our first step was to operate from one platform.After a tremendous amount of work on our technology,systems and data centers, we can now essentially dothat. This was an enormous accomplishment. Highlightsthis year include:• Flawlessly completing a highly complex wholesaledeposit conversion (the largest in the firm’s history); inone weekend, we converted more than 250,000 corporateclients on all continents, representing $10 trilliona day in global deposit transactions, to a single depositplatform supporting both retail and wholesale clientswith 19 million accounts and $393 billion in balances.• Insourcing our credit card processing platform (another“biggest” in banking history) to improve flexibility andlower our cost structure.• Seamlessly converting, in one weekend in the firstquarter of 2007, all 339 Bank of New York branches,adding 1.2 million deposit accounts to our platform.• Upgrading and consolidating our banking data centersover the last three years, from 109 to 67. Our goal is tocontinue to reduce our data centers to 39 by 2010.Having accomplished the above, we can now refocus ourtechnology and operational expertise and abilities to theimportant and complex process of improving customerservice and quality.We continued to get the most out of our modelWe are a global bank with scale, diversification andcollaboration across our six lines of business – all of whichdeliver financial services to individuals and institutions.That’s our model. We have described this in detail in priorletters and will not repeat it here. But what really matters ishow well we are able to leverage our collective strength tocreate the most value for our customers and shareholders.We invest in all of our businesses to ensure that each is aleader in its specific industry and is able to grow organically.While these businesses do well individually, we believethey all create great competitive advantage for each other,too. Over the course of 2007, we’ve clearly seen how eachof our businesses benefits from the links across our productset and how every business gains from being a part of astrong, respected JPMorgan Chase. It is not about crossselling for the sake of cross selling. Rather, it is aboutfocusing our resources and expertise on pursuing naturalproduct extensions that make things easier and more costeffective for our customers.Below are a few of the tangible examples of how thisapproach has benefited our company and, moreimportantly, our clients:• Asset Management’s partnership with our other businessesreached record levels in 2007. Referrals from theInvestment Bank and Commercial Banking resultedin new clients with $19 billion in assets, representing$48 million in annualized new revenue, an increase of20% in new revenue and 46% in new assets fromreferrals in 2006.• TSS continues to capitalize on the Investment Bank’sIPO underwriting relationships to secure depositaryreceipt mandates worldwide. TSS also leverages theInvestment Bank’s advisory relationships to generatecash management and escrow business. On the otherside of the ledger, TSS clients with sweep accounts havethat money invested in money market funds withJPMorgan Asset Management (accounting for morethan 20% of Asset Management’s global money marketfund assets).• Our broad consumer businesses are collaborativelybuilding our brand and investing in joint sales andmarketing efforts. We launched a single new brandcampaign across Retail Financial Services and CardServices under the “Chase What Matters” message.This unified message aligns our values with those ofour customers – by focusing on what matters to them(e.g., access, protection, advocacy, rewards and value).Our goal is to make Chase the best brand in consumerfinancial services. We advanced our ongoing efforts to recruit, train andretain top talent and enrich the diversity of our companyOur business, people and reputation are critically importantassets. We are absolutely committed to attracting andretaining outstanding individuals. Today, throughout ourcompany and at every level, you will find exceptionallytalented people. This requires an ongoing commitment –not a stop-and-start approach. A strong pipeline of talentproduces great managers. Over the past three years, wehave been improving our recruiting efforts on campusesaround the world. Our efforts are paying off. We havesignificantly increased the number of students who acceptour full-time employment offers in the Investment Bankand have been recognized by BusinessWeek for the qualityof our internship and training programs. Increasingly,outstanding students with considerable options agree thatJPMorgan is “the place you want to be.”We have also continued to build on solid gains in 2007to enhance the diversity of our employee base. To step upour employment efforts, we have asked one of our topexecutives to work directly with me and the humanresources team to focus 100% of his time on recruitingand retaining outstanding minorities. And as a result, lastyear, our company was fortunate to hire more exceptionalminority executives in senior positions than ever before.We have also increased supplier diversity spending by32%. Last year, we did more than $700 million ofbusiness with diversely owned companies.We intensified our corporate responsibility effortsWe believe an integral part of our growth strategy is tofocus our resources where they will do the most good bysupporting the organizations that can make a meaningfuldifference to the people who live in communities in whichwe operate. Our Foundation now provides more than$110 million in grants annually, more than doubling theamount from $45 million in 2000. Investments range frombuilding affordable housing in Dallas and New Orleansto training New York City public school principals.We are also committed to the environment. In developingour environmental footprint, we adhere to the most stringentguidelines. We also do our part to contribute innovativesolutions to environmental issues. 2007 highlightsinclude: creating several conservation programs in-house,piloting green branches, building a “LEED” platinumcertificate building in London, and renovating our worldheadquarters in New York to meet the highest environmentalstandards.We have also worked closely with the U.S. government andwith a number of other institutions to create programsto help keep borrowers in their homes. Through our charitablesupport and in helping to develop strong publicpolicies, we are determined to materially enhance ourefforts in this area – whether it’s through working withgovernments, not-for-profits or other community organizations.We have much more to say about the work we aredoing in this area, which we will express in a detailedreport on corporate responsibility over the coming months.C. Operating Efficiency and Capital StrengthOur 2007 progress with regard to these two priorities isreviewed below.We continued to boost efforts to increase operatingefficiency and reinvest in the businessMany of the investments described in the previous sectionwere funded by cost savings. By eliminating waste, we werenot only able to run a more efficient and effective company,but we were also able to invest more where it countsmost. For example, over the course of 2007, we shed4.3 million square feet of excess real estate globally; since2003, we have shed 13 million square feet of excess space.Eliminating this excess real estate has enabled us to becomemore, not less, accessible to our customers. In 2007, theseredeployed savings were used to develop new branches,international presence and electronic capabilities. We willstay vigilant to reduce unnecessary expenses and invest inareas that will also make us stronger down the road.We remained disciplined and committed to preserving afortress balance sheetWe operate in risky businesses, and having a fortress balancesheet is a strategic imperative, not a philosophical bent. It isalso a critical differentiator for us – especially in uncertaintimes. We achieved it through the following elements:• Appropriately conservative accounting.• Strong loan loss reserves.• Diligent review of all assets and liabilities (on and offour balance sheet).• Disciplined reporting and regular reviews across ourbusinesses.• A detailed and deep understanding of – and constantfocus on – the margins and returns of each business(often at the product level).• Recognition of market cyclicality and continuousanalysis of our own businesses so that we deliver solidreturns through the cycle – not just in good times. We maintained strength to operate in any environment by:• Sustaining a strong capital ratio, whether measuredby Tier 1 capital (we had 8.4%) or tangible commonequity to assets (we had a ratio of 5%). Under the newBasel II capital rules, we expect our Tier 1 capital ratiowould be even stronger than we report today.• Capitalizing on favorable market conditions early in2007 to pre-fund a substantial amount of our company’sneed for capital and long-term debt. This gave usflexibility when evaluating financing alternatives duringthe second half of the year.• Maintaining (and continuing to maintain) extremelyhigh liquidity. This means that your company currentlyhas on average a range of $20 billion to $50 billion inovernight investments. This has served us well underthe current market conditions.• Increasing our dividend by 12% from the previous year– for the first time in six years. We believe that payingout 30%-40% of earnings as dividends is generally theappropriate amount.• Repurchasing approximately $8 billion of our stockbecause we believe it is a good investment and is consistentwith our capital needs. To give us more flexibilityas we entered a turbulent time, however, we essentiallystopped buying back stock in the third and fourthquarters of last year.We avoided seeking expensive capital from outside sourcesWe continually stress test our capital and liquidity needs. Tosimplify, what we essentially try to do is stay properly capitalized,at current levels, even if called to fund up to $100 billionof cash needs for our clients or for the corporation. Wethink these are conservative (if not worst-case) assumptions,but if the environment trends more negative, we think ourTier 1 ratio would remain very strong (particularly relative toour peers in this type of scenario). Our goal is to continueserving our clients and building our business without beingpressured to seek expensive equity or debt capital elsewhere.We used our strong foundation to further our objectivesNot only did our strong balance sheet and liquidityallow us to sleep better at night, but it also made itpossible for us to:• Support our clients by fulfilling their capital requirementsprudently with credit – especially as the marketsbegan to deteriorate in the latter half of 2007.• Build our business. For example, we took advantage ofwhat we believed was an opportune time to strengthenour presence in the mortgage business.• Prepare ourselves to take advantage of emergingopportunities, which could include buying good assetsat a reasonable price or evaluating other strategicacquisitions that make sense for our shareholders.II. KEY ISSUES AND LESSONS OF 2007In the fall of 2007, my daughter called and asked me,“Dad, what is a financial crisis?” I answered her by saying,without intending to be funny, “It’s something thathappens every five to 10 years.” She then asked, “Sowhy is everyone so surprised?”The United States and the world have, in fact, hadvarious financial crises every five to seven years, probablyfor as long as financial history has been recorded. Inrecent times, there was the recession of 1982; the stockmarket crash of 1987; the savings-and-loan and commercialreal estate crisis of 1990-1991; the market panic of1997-1998, brought about by the Long Term CapitalManagement and emerging-market crises. Finally, in2001, the Internet bubble burst, knocking the stockmarket down 40%.Looking at all of these crises, some attributes were different,but many were the same. The triggering event in2007 was the bursting of the housing bubble and therelated bad mortgage underwriting standards. In the 10years from 1995-2005, housing prices in the U.S. rose135%, far exceeding normal home price increases and outstrippingtraditional measures of affordability. While somethought the gains were justifiable, it is clear now that theywere not. As of today, housing prices nationally are downon average almost 10% since the end of 2006, and itlooks as if they will continue to deteriorate. It is also clear,in hindsight, that increasingly poor underwriting standards(e.g., loan-to-value ratios up to 100%, lax verificationof income and inflated appraisals) added fuel to thespeculation and froth in the markets. Many of these poormortgage products were also repackaged and dispersedwidely through various securities, thus distributing theproblems more broadly.As Warren Buffett says, “When the tide goes out, youcan see who’s swimming naked.” In this crisis, as the tidewent out, we saw subprime concerns first, then mortgage-relatedcollateralized debt obligations (CDOs), structuredinvestment vehicles (SIVs), Alt-A mortgages, mortgagereal estate investment trusts (REITs), the impact onmonolines and, finally, very unfortunately for us, homeequity loans. And the tide is still going out.As this chapter of history continues to be written, we cannothave the full benefit of hindsight. However, there aresome lessons we have already learned and others we candraw upon from past crises. In the context of today’s crisis,they are worth revisiting.A. Issues and Insights Specific to the 2007 Financial CrisisWe generally avoided many – but not all – of the issuesassociated with the storm of 2007. Let’s talk about someof them in detail.SIVs served no business purposeWe deliberately steered clear of most SIVs because weviewed them as arbitrage vehicles with plenty of risk, a limitedbusiness purpose and a flawed design (we sold a smallSIV back in 2005). We also minimized our financing toSIVs for the same reasons. SIVs will probably disappear –except for the few that demonstrate a sustainable businesspurpose – and the world will not miss them. That said, therewere two things related to SIVs that did catch us by surprise:• Their growth and its impact. SIVs had grown to a verylarge size as an industry segment – to approximately $500billion. And they owned a substantial amount of mortgagesecurities, CDOs and bank securities.• Their propensity to fund long-dated and sometimesilliquid assets with short-term commercial paper. Whenpeople started questioning the viability of SIVs, themarkets became unwilling to refinance their commercialpaper, and, therefore, many of the SIVs were forcedto liquidate their assets. The banks and money marketfunds that were holding SIVs’ commercial paper beganto experience stress of their own. Fortunately, ourInvestment Bank was not directly affected by this issuebecause we provided almost no backup credit facilitiesto SIVs, and our Asset Management group containedits exposure to SIVs by limiting its investment to onlythe few high-quality, well-structured SIVs.Subprime mortgages and subprime CDOs were moredangerous than we thoughtIn 2006, we thought we focused early on the subprimeissue – and, in fact, we addressed the subject at length inlast year’s Shareholder letter. We became increasingly vigilantin our underwriting and avoided underwriting loanswe were not comfortable holding to maturity. Even so,we still found ourselves having to tighten our underwritingof subprime mortgage loans six times through the end of2007. (Yes, this means our standards were not toughenough the first five times.) In last year’s letter, we thoughtour losses could increase substantially from 2006 levels.In fact, we saw them go up from $47 million in 2006 to$157 million in 2007. And we think they could significantlyelevate in 2008 if economic conditions worsen.Within our Investment Bank, we avoided large exposure tosubprime loans, mostly by reducing our positions or activelyhedging them. We also chose not to become a majorplayer in subprime-related CDOs. Even so, we did losesubstantially more than we expected: $1.4 billion on subprimemortgage and subprime-related CDOs. Although wegenerally treat off-balance sheet obligations like on-balancesheet obligations, a large share of our losses came in certainoff-balance sheet transactions. We will redouble our effortsto ensure that this does not happen again.Keeping the above in mind, we still believe that subprimemortgages are a good product. When subprime loans areproperly underwritten, they serve a meaningful purpose.They can make a real difference to young families, to thosewho experienced financial problems earlier in life, to immigrantswith little credit history and to the self-employed.These loans have helped many people achieve theAmerican dream by buying homes they can afford. Whiletighter underwriting standards have now materiallyreduced our production of subprime mortgage loans, wewill continue to find a prudent way to be in this business.Home equity deteriorated dramaticallyHome equity is important to our company. We retain all ofour home equity production on our balance sheet, and, atthe end of 2007, we had about $95 billion in our home equity portfolio. The losses in this portfolio are increasingrapidly and rising at a higher rate than we ever could haveexpected, even in a severe recession. In 2007, our netcharge-offs were $564 million, and we added $1.0 billion toreserves. In 2008, we think charge-offs in the first quartercould reach $450 million and possibly double by thefourth quarter (as a function of the level of home pricedepreciation). Since loan loss reserves reflect expected losses,this will require us to significantly increase these reserves.There will undoubtedly be more lessons to come as thedeterioration of the home equity business continues, butthere are three lessons we have already learned the hard way:• We underestimated the size of the housing bubble and therapid rate of depreciation. While we recognized the existenceof a housing bubble, the rate and severity of thehousing price depreciation surprised us. We also missedthe impact of increasingly aggressive underwritingstandards on housing price appreciation and increasedspeculation and froth in the market. Finally, we did notsee that the ever rising housing prices over the 10-yearperiod were masking potential losses. When these lossescame into clear view, as a result of the increasinglyaggressive underwriting standards, much of the damagehad already been done.• We misjudged the impact of more aggressive underwritingstandards. Over many years, loan-to-value (LTV) ratioshad increased from 80% to 85% to 90%, etc.; incomeverification became a less important part of the process;and appraisals became overly optimistic. These trendsled to far more aggressive underwriting. While eachindividual change seemed reasonable at the time andlosses seemed to be contained, we now know that wasa mirage. Multiple changes occurring over many yearshave essentially altered the nature of the product.We should have acted sooner and more substantially toreduce the LTV rates at which we lent, given theincreased risk of falling prices in a market of highlyinflated housing values. We also should have tightenedall other standards (e.g., income verification) in responseto growing speculation in the market and the increasingpropensity of people to respond to aggressive lendingstandards by buying houses they could barely afford.• We would have been better off had we imposed tightercontrols on the outside mortgage broker business. We usedthe same underwriting guidelines for outside mortgagebrokers as we did for our own mortgage bankers. Inhindsight, this was a mistake. We wish we had appliedtighter standards to outside brokers. Losses attributableto outside brokers have always been two to three timesgreater than losses on mortgages we produce internally.That is the reason we closed the broker business atBank One. We have now materially tightened standardsacross the board, and our standards for outside brokersare even tighter. Although home equity productionthrough the broker channel decreased by as much as60% by the fourth quarter of 2007, we believe thequality of underwriting has improved significantly.The home equity business seems to have fundamentallychanged from the way it was meant to be: a means of conservativelygiving people access to cash from equity in theirhouse. It has since evolved into a business that has allowedpeople to take leveraged bets on the assumption that thevalue of their home will increase. When home equityreturns to its original purpose and practice, it will be avery good business again. For that reason, we intend notonly to stay in it but to become the best in the business.Leveraged lending had a tough year, but it will continueto be part of our core businessIn 2007, we continued to hold the No.1 market positionin global syndicated finance and high-yield debt, and weintend to maintain these top rankings. Leveraged lending isan activity that has long been – and will continue to be – acritically important way for us to serve our clients. In total,over the last five years, our syndicated leveraged financebusiness has generated average annual revenue of $1.2billion. In 2007, after taking losses of $1.3 billion, net offees (which makes us very unhappy), this business stillgenerated $475 million in revenue. We made some mistakesthis past year, and we’ve learned the following:• We should have been more diligent when negotiating andstructuring commitment letters. A few years ago, commitmentsto fund future transactions were not reflected onour balance sheet until the details were finalized and thefinal, binding letter was signed. In the event of a materialchange in market conditions, this practice providedlenders with the ability to make important amendmentsto the letter and/or to the price at which it could besold. Over time, however, this flexibility disappeared,but we were still held to the original terms of thecommitment letters. This meant that when the marketdeteriorated, we still had to fund the transaction. Uponfunding, instead of making an average fee of 2% to 3%,we lost 5%. These commitment letters had essentiallybecome puts on the market. That is, if the markets werestrong, things were fine, but if the markets collapsed (asthey did), we would be stuck with the original price andcould lose a substantial amount of money. This is a one-sidedbet and one that subjects us to losses every timethe markets crash – an occurrence that is as inevitableas it is painful. Now, having recognized the value ofthese puts, we fully acknowledge the risks we are takingwhen we sign these letters. We cannot allow ourselves to be pushed into positions thatare too risky. We simply cannot follow the market likelemmings or allow ourselves to succumb to demands orpressures that compromise our credit standards and leadto bad decisions. In every deal we do, we must insist onfair treatment and adequate compensation for the risk weare asked to assume. A lot of people with whom we dobusiness in leveraged finance are among the most sophisticated,creative and tough businesspeople we know. Buttrue long-term partners understand that a healthy businessrelationship is a two-way street that must work forboth parties over a long period of time. Bad financialpractices, like equity bridges or excessive leverage, are notgood for us or, ultimately, for our partners.B. Lessons Learned: Some Old, Some NewDifferent triggering events ignite each financial crisis.Once under way, however, these crises have much in common.As they say, history may not repeat, but it rhymes.Hard lessons learned from past crises have relevance forus today. Let’s revisit a number of them as follows:Markets can get very volatileFor years, the financial industry had been the beneficiaryof relatively stable financial conditions. From 2001through the first half of 2007, markets were fairly benign,making it easier to get lulled into a false sense of securityand to lose sight of how risky the financial environmentcan be. We must always remind ourselves that marketscan become volatile very quickly and when least expected.For those traders who began their careers after the crisisof 1998, it was especially hard to accept that spreads andprices could widen by 250 basis points in a matter of days.Our responsibility as managers is to ensure, at every levelof trading, there exists a consistency in our approach anda deep respect for unpredictability of markets.There is no substitute for good judgment and strong oversightRisk models are valuable tools, but they have limitations.Because they are backward-looking by design, they tendto miss certain factors. The value of stress testing is alsoa function of time frame. For example, scenarios maybe compromised because the data may not go back farenough. We use value-at-risk (VAR) and stress testing, butthey are only part of what we consider good risk management.Good, sound, old-fashioned human judgment iscritical. Strong risk management entails constant reportingand review, exposure by exposure, and the ability to sizeup exposures instantly with the right systems. Managersmust know the tough questions to ask – especially withregard to stress-test loss scenarios – and have the ability tostay on top of all the important issues. Intense oversightby and information-sharing with managers is absolutelykey, as is access to the expertise of independent pricingand valuation groups. Finally, assumptions need to betested constantly. That said, we all know even when everythingis done right, there still will be volatile results andmistakes. But if things are not done correctly, then theoutcomes can be disastrous.When markets get volatile, almost all risky assets repriceThis is not a surprise – it has happened almost every timemarkets get volatile.In difficult market conditions, liquid assets become illiquidWhat happened to jumbo mortgages, commercial mortgage-backedsecurities, leveraged loans and CDOs are examplesof this phenomenon. And because financial companies haveassets that are no longer easily sold, they are less willingto take additional risk in the marketplace. This not onlycompounds the problem, but it also creates a new problem:skepticism about whether or not a company with illiquidassets can meet its short-term obligations.Problems occur when there is too much short-termfinancing funding long-term assetsThere is one financial commandment that cannot beviolated: Do not borrow short to invest long – particularlyagainst illiquid, long-term assets. As it turns out, somehedge funds, REITs, SIVs, CDOs and certain financialinstitutions did exactly that. In these kinds of markets,when the value of short-term investments is questioned,such as money market funds or commercial paper, a crisiscan easily ensue. Individuals, acting rationally to protecttheir own interests, race to sell securities; but, in aggregate,this process by market participants can easily take on a lifeof its own and escalate into a panic.A fortress balance sheet protects the franchiseAs I mentioned earlier, a fortress balance sheet is a strategicimperative – especially in turbulent market conditionslike these. No matter what conditions are, we always wantto have the capital, liquidity, reserves and overall strengthto be there for our clients and to continue investing wiselyin the business.Irrational expectations impede quality growthSometimes there’s so much pressure on companies toexpand their businesses that they end up pushing theirown people to grow, grow, grow. Often people feel thispressure most when market conditions are good. But itis when markets turn bad that such pressure can lead todangerous outcomes for all businesses – and especially forvolatile businesses like investment banking that take risks.Standards are reduced, too many compromises are madeand there’s a lack of focus on what is in the best interestof clients. It is easy to grow a business when taking onadditional risk – but that is often the worst thing to do.Growth expectations need to be rational. We know thereare times when we should not strive to grow certain areasof the business. This is an operating philosophy thatprotects us from the costly consequences of bad growth.Risk models that rationalize a lower level of capitalcontribute to poor judgmentTo maximize the size of a potential risk position, modelsare often designed to justify as little capital as possible. Forexample, numerous triple-A, super-senior CDOs drew littleregulatory capital and, therefore, looked safe with goodreturns. That safety and those returns turned out to be anillusion. This is why it is important for us to understand ourrisks inside and out and to maintain sufficient economiccapital against that risk. We measure risk by how bad thingscould be – not how good they are.Financial turmoil increases the chance of recession – andthe specter of recession weighs heavily on the marketIt is important to note that the turbulence we’ve experiencedoccurred in a good economy. And while financialconditions have a serious impact on the global economy,they do not – in and of themselves – necessarily cause arecession. In fact, many severe financial crises have notresulted in recessions. That said, the weaker the economygets, the greater the impact could be across all our lines ofbusiness. Tight financial conditions (e.g., the reduction ofcredit, the outright removal of credit in certain marketsand the higher costs of credit) make it harder and morecostly for individuals and companies to borrow moneyand, therefore, weaken the economy.As these conditions worsen, the possibility of a deep recessionincreases. As the specter of a recession weighs moreheavily on the normal functioning of capital markets,so too does the fear about the possibility of a recession.Why take additional risk when we might be in a recession?Investors decide they don’t want to take the risk so theymay remove money from banks, commercial paper andmoney market funds in order to buy treasuries. Such areaction isn’t necessarily unwise or inappropriate, but itdoes help to create a self-fulfilling prophesy. I I I . ON TO 2008 (AND LOOKING FORWARDTO 2009)In the summer of 2007, we began to prepare for a downturnin the market. While we have successfully weathered thestorm thus far, we face new uncertainties every day. Despitethe continued turmoil, we are encouraged to see many of theproblems resolving at a fairly decent pace. Yet, while wehope the remaining issues will be sorted out expeditiouslyand a lengthy recession will be averted, we cannot count onthis being the case. We need to confront the possibility thattoday’s upheaval could result in serious market deteriorationthat the U.S. has not experienced since 1982. To prepare forthis possibility, we need to have a clear sense of our risks.A. Key Potential RisksWhat follows is a discussion of the risks that concern usmost and some of our thoughts about how to address them.There is still substantial risk on our balance sheetWe are generally comfortable with the values, the hedgingand the loan reserves on our balance sheet. But we alsorecognize that many of our positions, while somewhathedged, are still quite risky. Hedges, by their very nature,are imperfect. We focus on this risk by viewing our assetson a gross basis. Relying solely upon a net basis implies thatit is not possible to lose money on both sides of a complextrade. We know, however, that this is quite possible.Some of our largest exposures in the Investment Bank as ofyear-end are listed below:• $26.4 billion in funded and unfunded leveraged loans:We have written these loans down by more than 6% butacknowledge that they could easily deteriorate more invalue. However, at current levels, we believe they representa good long-term value. So, in early 2008, we decidedto add $4.9 billion to the $3.2 billion of leveragedloans we were already holding as long-term investments.• $15.5 billion in commercial mortgage-backed exposure:The majority of this exposure is securities and loans, activelycredit-hedged and risk-managed; 64% is triple-A rated.• $2.7 billion in subprime mortgage and subprime CDO-relatedexposure: Approximately $200 million of thisexposure is subprime CDO; the remainder is comprisedof subprime loans, residuals and bonds.• $5.5 billion in CDO warehouse and unsold positions:92% are corporate loan underlying; subprime is negligible.• $6.4 billion in Alt-A mortgage exposure: Most are triple-A securities and first-lien mortgages. Most of these exposures are marked-to-market daily. Whilethey can fluctuate considerably in value on a single day andcan dramatically affect any one quarter’s results, we believemany of them now have decent long-term value. It is alsoworth noting that our gross exposures are, in general, lowerthan those of most of our competitors.I have already discussed our subprime and home equityexposures. With regard to our Commercial Bank, an exposureworth bringing to your attention is the $16.5 billionin commercial real estate exposure. This position is well-diversifiedand represents only 12% of our total CommercialBank credit portfolio. We have been very conservative ingrowing this exposure in recent years. On a percentageand absolute basis, it represents less than half the averageexposure of our Commercial Bank peers.The financial stability of some monoline bond insurersremains an issueSome market analysts believe there could be a downgradingof the monoline bond insurers – from their triple-A ratingstatus to double-A status or worse – and possibly one ormore defaults. Our gross exposures to monolines are significantand cut across multiple product lines and businesses.However, in spite of the market talk around this issue, wedo not regard a downgrade to double-A as a major event.While no one could know all of the ramifications of aworst-case default scenario, we believe the impact – whilecostly for JPMorgan Chase – would be manageable.New products often will have problemsWe need to keep a close eye on the design, trading and operationalaspects of new financial products. Almost all new productsgo through periods of stress and market-testing, which,in turn, causes problems of one sort or another. At one time,even basic equity trading nearly brought Wall Street to itsknees when the volume of trades exceeded the systems’processing capacity. There have been similar problems withexotic mortgage products, options, foreign exchange, highyieldbonds, hybrid derivatives and so on. In many cases,these issues were eventually resolved through the creation ofstandardized contracts and standard industry exchanges andclearinghouses. These, in turn, facilitated more efficiency inthe clearing and netting of risk, provided better regulatorycontrols and led to stronger management oversight.Many market participants expected derivatives to be at theheart of the next financial crisis. So far, most derivativesmarkets have averted the storm, and derivatives have servedas an essential tool for some companies to use in sheddingor hedging risk That said, there are some legitimate concerns.A severe economic downturn could put extreme pressureon the settlement and clearance functions in some ofthe derivatives markets. With this and other concerns inmind, we can assure you that we are paying close attentionto our derivatives positions and exposure. In addition, weare strongly in favor of regulatory and industry efforts tocoordinate and improve the control environment.A recession will have a significant impact on creditOur business is cyclical, and one of the largest risks weface is the impact of a recession on credit in general. Inlast year’s letter, we addressed the recession and creditissue, and what we said then bears repeating now:We continuously analyze and measure our risk. In fact,during budget planning, we ask our management teamsto prepare – on all levels – for difficult operating environments.While the risk comes in many forms, such as recession,market turmoil and geopolitical turbulence, one ofour largest risks is still the credit cycle. Credit losses, bothconsumer and wholesale, have been extremely low, perhapsamong the best we’ll see in our lifetimes. We must beprepared for a return to the norm in the credit cycle.In a tougher credit environment, credit losses could risesignificantly, by as much as $5 billion over time, whichmay require increases in loan loss reserves. InvestmentBank revenue could drop, and the yield curve couldsharply invert. This could have a significant negativeeffect on JPMorgan Chase’s earnings. That said, theseevents generally do not occur simultaneously, and therewould likely be mitigating factors to lift our earnings(e.g., compensation pools would probably go down, somecustomer fees and spreads would probably go up, andfunding costs could decrease).It’s important to share these scenarios with you, not toworry you but to be as transparent as possible about thepotential impact of these negative scenarios and to let youknow how we are preparing for them. We do not knowexactly what will occur or when, but we do know thatbad things happen. There is no question that our company’searnings could go down substantially in a recessionaryenvironment. But if we are prepared, we can bothminimize the damage to our company and capitalize onopportunities in the marketplace.(Shareholder letter, 2006)Because of the extreme drop in home equity and subprimeloan value, the losses I referred to last year could be evengreater in 2008. However, we believe our strong capitaland the increase of our loan loss reserves have put us ingood shape. In 2007, we added $2 billion to loan lossreserves, and we expect to continue adding to thosereserves in 2008. Our reserve positions across all of ourbusinesses are among the best in the industry.Managing in a downturn requires a different strategyThe impact of a downturn – and its effect on earnings –varies considerably by line of business. Therefore, itrequires each of our businesses to develop its own strategyfor dealing with the unique set of risks and mitigatingfactors it could face. In some cases, returns could actuallyincrease (because of higher spreads), while in other casesthey could decrease (because of lower volumes). In anycase, however, we will remain committed to building thebusiness. As such, we will not sacrifice long-term value andmeaningful customer service to get better quarterly earnings.In fact, in certain situations, we may actually tradeoff near-term earnings to gain customers and build marketshare in businesses that are financially viable and of strategicimportance. In those instances, we are also confidentthat healthy earnings will return. We believe the only timeto sacrifice good growth is to protect the financial standingof the company. Fortunately, we are not in that position.B. Looking ForwardWe believe the mortgage business will reboundIn spite of all the difficulties in the mortgage markets, weremain committed to building the country’s best mortgagecompany. The mortgage product is, and will continue tobe, the largest and arguably one of the single most importantfinancial products in the world. With our brand,scale, systems, retail branches and our ability to trade,hedge and underwrite mortgages (which include prime,subprime, Alt-A, jumbo and home equity loans), we havewhat it takes to be a winner in this business. During thelatter part of 2007, we set out to increase our home lendingmarket share and have, so far, succeeded. By the endof the fourth quarter of 2007, our share had grown to11% from 6% a year earlier. As a result of our liquidityand capital strength, we were able to underwrite theseloans when others could not. Although we may pay forprobably starting this expansion a little too early, weremain committed to the goal.The risks and rewards of highly structured products willbe re-evaluated and changed, but “securitization” willremain viableJPMorgan is a large participant in the asset-backed securitiesmarket (which includes CDOs), and we try to focuson products we believe are transparent and offer reasonablerisks and rewards to investors. We deliberately choseto avoid the more structured CDO products because webelieved the inherent risks were too high. Additionally,our knowledge of the subprime business informed ourdecision to remain very cautious about any subprimeCDOs, where the bulk of the problems has occurred.We think there’s a place for structured CDOs but not intheir most complicated forms, such as “CDO-squared.”Standards will be materially enhanced (in terms of accounting,operations and ratings guidelines), and many overlycomplex products will go the way of the dinosaur.We also believe that while there will likely be changesto the securitization markets, securitization of assets willnot go away. Securitization is a highly effective way tofinance assets. In fact, many securitized products, likecredit cards, have been tested through the market cycleand have not had significant problems. Securitization ofsubprime assets will probably reopen, too – but thestandards will be more conservative, and there will be farmore clarity (e.g., better underwriting standards, morecapital, etc.). Market discipline, in some form, will alsocome to bear at each stage of the production chain – fromthe originator to the packager to the seller – and requireeach to have the right amount of skin in the game. We arenot sure how it will change, but, between regulation andthe market, we know it will – and probably for the better.Accounting can be abused and misusedThere’s been a lot of discussion about the pros and cons ofthe mark-to-model versus the mark-to-market approach.We believe it is critically important to trust the value ofthe assets and liabilities on (and off ) one’s balance sheet.Regardless of the method one uses (mark-to-market,mark-to-model, etc.), accounting can be abused. This letteris not the right place in which to carry on this debate,but suffice it to say, accounting has become increasinglycomplex. Much of this complexity is unnecessary andleads to questionable results, adds to earnings volatilityand creates more room for shenanigans, not less. Morework needs to be done to fix this.Many of our accounting and regulatory capital requirementsare pro-cyclicalMany of the methods we use to calculate capital and loanloss reserves are pro-cyclical. In fact, loan loss reserves andcapital are often at their lowest levels at precisely the pointat which a cyclical downturn begins. In addition, I wouldargue that fair value accounting rules, margining requirements,rating agencies and regulatory rules add to procyclicalbehavior. Thoughtful policy changes could providea substantial cushion to the pro-cyclical forces that make afinancial crisis worse. A comprehensive effort between allparties involved (regulators, government and financial institutions)is needed to develop and drive forward theseimportant policy changes. More assets on the books of banks or financial companiesare illiquid (or can quickly become illiquid)Given this trend, regulators and rating agencies will probablyinsist that the rise of illiquid assets requires higherlevels of capital and proper funding with longer-term debt.There will be a recoveryWe simply cannot know how long this slowdown (orrecession) will last or the extent of the damage it willcause. Today’s most brilliant economists have variousstrong, well-argued current views on the subject – theyjust don’t all agree. In any case, our goal is to be prepared.In reality, our financial system has fairly rapidly and successfully,if not painfully, been dealing with most of theissues I’ve discussed in this letter. Losses have been taken,substantial capital has been raised and massive deleveraginghas already taken place in hedge funds, SIVs, financialcompanies, REITs, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs)and CDOs. While all losses may not be recognized yet,our sense is that a lot have been (at least for U.S. companies).Importantly, the creation of new potential-problemassets (leveraged loans, subprime assets, CLOs, CDOs andcommercial mortgage-backed securities) has virtually ceased.So, demand will eventually catch up with an ever diminishingsupply of increasingly attractively pricedassets. It is unlikely that the pace of deleveraging willintensify. Therefore, it is probable that the financial crisiswill mitigate by year-end. In addition, fairly large fiscaland monetary stimulation and the new mortgage rulesfor Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal HousingAuthority (which will bring more capital to the mortgagemarket) could have a positive effect on the markets overall.Yet, even if financial conditions improve, the economy couldcontinue to erode, causing us to remain in a recessionaryenvironment for a while. And it may sound peculiar (if, infact, we are going into a recession) that we are also preparingfor interest rates that may trend a lot higher over the nextseveral years (we won’t go into the reasons now).We would also like to assure you, all of our shareholders,that while we are preparing for an extended financial crisis,we will never lose sight of our primary purpose to build astrong company and great franchise for the long term.IV. IN CLOSINGFinally, I would like to make a few comments about yourmanagement team. You don’t get to see these professionalsin action as I do, but if you did, you would be extremelyproud of them. Not only are they ethical, disciplinedand thoughtful, but the tougher conditions became, themore they stepped up to support the firm. People canceledtime off and worked or flew through the night to quicklyrespond to the extraordinary circumstances of the pastyear. Everyone shared information, offered to help andactively demonstrated how much they care about the workthey do and the customers they serve. I am privileged tobe part of this great team.Our senior managers are all shareholders – they retain75% of any restricted stock and options they receive ascompensation. In this and countless other ways, themanagement team sets a stellar example for all employeesof what it means to be invested in the company’s longtermsuccess. Currently, 140,000 out of 180,000employees own stock in the company.All of us are dedicated to building a great company ofwhich you, our shareholders, our customers and all of ouremployees can be proud … and we are well on our way.Jamie DimonChairman and Chief Executive OfficerMarch 10, 2008