Dear fellow shareholdersThe announced J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. merger with Bank OneOn January 14, 2004, we announced our decision to merge with Bank One. We are excited about themerger, and although it does not affect our results for 2003, I wanted to begin my report to you with anoverview of our new firm.This merger will create a firm with leadership positions in both wholesale and retail, a more balancedearnings stream, greater scale and financial strength. From both a strategic and a people perspective, webelieve the combination is complementary and compelling. We were pleased that the rating agenciesreacted favorably after the announcement of the merger.For 2003, the firms combined would have earned over $9 billion. The earnings, on a combined basis,would have been almost evenly split between wholesale businesses and retail. The merger will furtherstrengthen our existing leadership positions in wholesale banking, providing even greater scale in termsof both clients and capital. In retail banking, we will be the second-largest U.S. credit card issuer andthe second-largest U.S. bank based upon core deposits, with assets of over $1 trillion. From coast tocoast, we will provide mortgages, auto loans and credit cards, and welcome customers into more than2,300 bank branches in 17 states.Our new firm will have a complete financial services platform, providing the full range of retail andwholesale products. We anticipate the merger will close by mid-year 2004, and you can expect moreinformation in the near future regarding our shareholder meeting. The bottom line is that we believethe new J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. will create tremendous shareholder value in 2004 and beyond.Against the backdrop of an improving economy and a favorable turnin the credit cycle, JPMorgan Chase outperformed its peers by mostmeasures. Among major investment and commercial banks, we rankedfirst in total return to shareholders.2003 year in reviewIn 2003, our focus was on delivering results. As I said in the closingwords of my 2002 letter to shareholders, “We have the right model,the right strategy, and the right people . . . What we need now is betterperformance and improved execution. That will be the unrelentingfocus of JPMorgan Chase in 2003.”Our focus on results was evident in our much improved financialperformance.On an operating basis in 2003, we delivered:• Higher revenues – up 13% from 2002, to $35.1 billion• Higher earnings – $6.7 billion, compared with $3.4 billion in 2002• A return on average common equity of 16%, compared with8% in 2002Against the backdrop of an improving economy and a favorable turnin the credit cycle, JPMorgan Chase outperformed its peers by mostmeasures. Among major investment and commercial banks, we rankedfirst in total return to shareholders. We strengthened our leadershippositions in key product areas across all of our businesses. We deliveredgreater value, in more ways, to a growing number of clients.Throughout 2003, JPMorgan Chase also recognized the need torebuild trust in financial institutions, including our own. We revisedand enhanced our internal risk management processes and policies,providing better oversight of complex financial transactions andgreater transparency in our financial disclosures. We have alsoembraced new regulations in the U.S. from Congress, the Securitiesand Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchangestrengthening governance.I want to take this opportunity to thank Larry Fuller, who has retiredfrom the Board of Directors, for his contributions to our firm since 1985.We have benefited greatly from the wisdom and experience of ourboard members, and we wish Larry well.Here is a look at how our major businesses performed in 2003.The Investment Bank demonstrated the value of its global scale,diverse issuer and investor client franchise, and integrated businessmodel to deliver a record $3.7 billion in earnings. We achievedsignificant gains in revenues (up 16%) and substantial reductionsin credit costs, resulting in a gain in earnings of 183% and areturn on equity (ROE) of 19% for the year. The Investment Bank’simpressive showing was driven by strongequity underwriting, increased capital markets revenues, and recordtotal return revenues in Global Treasury.Our success in 2003 was also based upon our intellectual capital,innovation and expertise in risk management. It is our ability to understandour clients’ needs and then execute extraordinarily well thathelps us win in the marketplace. A very good example of our client focusis our creation of the first-ever transferable employee stock optionprogram for Microsoft.In terms of the outlook for the Investment Bank, we are well positionedfor the next phase of the economic cycle. From 2002 to 2003, wemoved from #8 to #4 in Global Equity and Equity-Related, and wemaintained our #5 position in Global Announced M&A while increasingour market share. We also continued to rank #1 in Interest Rate andCredit Derivatives as well as in Global Loan Syndications. Even with theanticipated shift in market activity, we believe our fixed incomebusinesses will continue to flourish. More than half of our revenuesare from investor clients who regularly need to adjust their portfolios.This activity creates a solid foundation for ongoing business andcontinued growth.We are a truly global investment bank, delivering the breadth of thefirm’s capabilities – tailored to the needs of clients in local markets.We continue to perform well in the Europe, Middle East and Africa(EMEA) region, where the Investment Bank generated approximately$1.3 billion in after-tax earnings. We are the only firm in the EMEAregion to finish 2003 ranked #5 or better across the equity, M&A, loanand bond markets. We want to be the most global of the Europeaninvestment banks, and the most European of the global investmentbanks. We enjoy strong leadership positions in Latin America, and ourfranchise in Asia presents significant growth opportunities for us.With the completeness and scale of our capabilities, a commitmentto innovation, and a client franchise that includes strong relationshipswith over 90% of Fortune 500 companies and equivalent globalpenetration, the Investment Bank is well positioned to compete atthe highest level around the world.Treasury & Securities Services (TSS), which provides financialtransaction processing and information services to wholesale clients,delivered attractive returns in 2003, generating an ROE of 19%.Though affected by the downturn in capital markets and low interestrates, TSS has provided a stable source of revenue year after year,taking full advantage of its global scale, technological sophisticationand market leadership. Each of the three TSS businesses – TreasuryServices, Investor Services and Institutional Trust Services – is amongthe top three in the world. We remain committed to extending those leadership positions. Tworecent acquisitions – an electronic payments subsidiary of Citigroup andBank One’s corporate trust business – are expected to enhance considerablyTSS’s revenue growth rate in 2004. (It is important to note thatBank One sold its trust business because it lacked the scale and globalscope that JPMorgan Chase has in this business.) TSS will continueto drive for greater scale, productivity gains and higher service qualitylevels to maintain its market leadership.Investment Management & Private Banking (IMPB) showedstrong momentum in 2003, generating earnings of $268 million. Pre-taxmargins improved significantly throughout the year and assets undersupervision increased 18% to $758 billion. During the year, IMPB madesubstantial progress in its execution on three key goals. Investmentperformance improved, particularly in key U.S. institutional equity andfixed income products. The Private Bank successfully executed itsgrowth strategy as client assets and product usage increased year overyear. Additionally, credit costs were lowered by nearly 60% comparedto 2002. And lastly, IMPB advanced its U.S. retail strategy by acquiringfull ownership of J.P. Morgan | American Century Retirement PlanServices with $41 billion in 401(k) plan assets. Aligning Retirement PlanServices and BrownCo, our online brokerage service, to build an IRAroll-over capability positions IMPB well to benefit from the growingindividual retirement market.JPMorgan Partners (JPMP), our private equity business, has investedin a wide range of companies in diverse sectors, stages and locations.JPMP’s primary investment vehicle is its $6.5 billion Global Fund, whichinvests on behalf of the firm and third-party investors. JPMP’s financialperformance improved substantially over the year. In 2004 and beyond,JPMP should benefit from a continued recovery in equity financingand M&A activities.Chase Financial Services (CFS), our retail and middle marketbusinesses, improved upon their very strong 2002 results with recordrevenues and earnings in 2003, producing an ROE of 28%.As the result of its focus on national consumer credit businesses, CFShas established a unique franchise that has enabled it to deliver strongresults. It is a market leader in all three major national consumer creditbusinesses – the only top-five performer across mortgage originationand servicing, credit cards and auto finance.Chase Home Finance had a record year in 2003, coming off excellentresults in 2002. On all fronts, Home Finance took advantage of themortgage boom, resulting in an increase in revenues of 38% over2002. The quality of execution was key to its success, as the businessmanaged record volumes while maintaining high customer service Chase Cardmember Services grew outstandings despitebalance paydowns due to consumer liquidity resulting from the mortgagerefinancing boom. Chase Auto Finance also had a record number oforiginations and increased its market share.In addition to our national consumer credit businesses, our other CFSbusinesses – Chase Regional Banking and Chase Middle Market – haveshown significant growth in deposits, up 8% and 17% respectively,despite the low interest rate environment, which compressed spreads,reducing revenue for the year.In the still fragmented retail banking industry, CFS’s businesses focusedon competitive differentiators, such as productivity and marketingenhancements.We have seen gains from disciplined expense managementand from greater efficiency. CFS has also boosted the quality ofits marketing efforts, resulting in progress in cross-selling productsand services.We invested in businesses such as home equity, where weachieved significant increases in outstandings. Personal FinancialServices, our branch-based business offering banking and investing servicesto upper-tier retail customers, continues to gain momentum, havingincreased new investment fee-based sales by 63% and bringing assetsunder management to a total of $10.7 billion.In 2004, CFS expects to operate at lower but still robust ROE levels,caused by our expectation that the mortgage business will return tomore normal conditions. CFS will focus on stable credit quality,productivity gains, innovative marketing and cross-selling initiatives,and continued investment in growth opportunities to improve itscompetitive position.Disciplined risk managementThe improvement in our performance was enhanced by better executionin risk management.In the two years following the merger that created JPMorgan Chase(that is, in 2001 and 2002), our performance suffered from three mainchallenges, none of them principally related to the merger: excessivecapital committed to private equity; over-concentration of loans totelecommunications companies; and large exposure to Enron.We dealt decisively with each issue in 2003.We reduced our exposureto private equity to 15% of the firm’s common stockholders’ equityat the end of 2003 (down from a peak of 29% in 2000).We movedto put Enron behind us through the settlement that our firm andothers reached in 2003 with the Securities and Exchange Commissionand other regulatory and governmental entities. We reduced commercialcredit exposure and drove substantial reductions in single-name andindustry concentrations. Commercial criticized exposure (rated CCC+/Caa1 and lower) andnon-performing loans were both down over 45% from the beginningof the year. Our provision for commercial credit losses was down by$2.8 billion. The risk profile of the firm has improved, and our bottomline results are much better.Building a great cultureI believe that a high-performance culture is the critical differentiatorthat separates the great enterprises from those that are merely good,and that separates enduring success from transitory achievement.Business units continued to emphasize increased productivity andimproved quality. In 2003, our productivity and quality efforts yieldedmore than $1 billion pre-tax in net financial benefits, more than doublingthose achieved in 2002. Over one-half of these benefits camefrom re-engineering key business processes using the disciplined methodologyof Six Sigma. We used Six Sigma in several key areas, includingenhancing our customers’ experience and removing costs from ourlarger and more complex operations.The challenge has been the blending of key attributes of the culturesof our predecessor firms into a new model. We are focused on developinga culture based on integrity, respect, excellence and innovation,where diversity and differences are recognized and valued, and leadershipdevelopment and managing talent are hallmarks of our firm.Our work on establishing a high-performance culture will continue aswe complete the merger with Bank One.The firm’s efforts to build a strong culture have also focused on encouraginga spirit of giving back to the communities where we live anddo business. We are proud that the firm has maintained a consistent“outstanding” Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating, and we arecommitted to partnering with our communities around the world tomake a positive difference. Our employees have developed a greatspirit of giving back, not just in monetary terms, but also through volunteeringtheir time and talents to their communities.2004: Still about strategy and delivering resultsWe are beginning to recognize the power and potential of our greatstrategic platform. Clearly, our clients and customers like the value weadd in both our wholesale and retail businesses.In wholesale banking, our capabilities reach across all important productsets, clients and locations – from the Americas to Europe, Asia, theMiddle East and Africa. We have the competitive advantage of scaleand completeness, and we remain focused on integrated delivery toserve our clients well. There is ample room for organic growth anddevelopment in providing premier global wholesale financial services.In other areas, such as Institutional Trust Services, we may choose toaugment our skills through tactical acquisitions. For the most part,however, our wholesale banking business will grow through betterexecution in delivering the whole firm to a highly sophisticated andglobal client base at multiple points of need.The retail banking landscape presents a different picture. It is largeand still relatively fragmented, even after a decade of consolidation.Almost certainly, consolidation will continue and gather pace in yearsto come. With Bank One, we will significantly extend our retail financialservices platform and be better positioned to take advantage ofthe enormous opportunities before us.The strategic model we have adopted, with extensive leadership positionsin both wholesale and retail financial services, provides great balanceto our growth, returns and diversification.Confidence in the futureWith the strategic platform we created three years ago, the merger withBank One, and the progress we have made toward building a high-performanceculture, we have to prove that we can consistently producesuperior results, and that we are disciplined in how we use our capital.We also have to demonstrate a seamless integration with Bank Oneso that we add value from day one.I have every confidence that we can accomplish these goals.In 2004 as in 2003, the unrelenting focus of our firm will be on resultsand performance.William B. Harrison, Jr.Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMarch 15, 2004