As of year-end 2005, I stepped down as CEO ofJPMorgan Chase – turning the leadership of the firm overto my partner, Jamie Dimon, who I believe will prove to beone of the outstanding CEOs the financial services industryhas had in a long time.As Chairman, I look forward to contributing to our growthby leveraging my global relationships and contacts and byhelping to further develop strategy.As I look back on my 38 years in the industry, all with thesame organization, I realize how fortunate I have been andwhat an exciting journey I have been on. When I left asmall town in North Carolina to join Chemical Bank in1967, my goal was to spend two years in New York andthen return to North Carolina. Little did I know I wouldbe part of an industry and a career that were as challengingand rewarding as these have been.I step down as CEO believing that:• JPMorgan Chase is very well positioned strategically to beone of the great financial institutions in the world.• Size does matter in our industry – provided that sizetranslates into operating and scale efficiencies, increasedprofit margins, stronger earnings and leadershippositions. And the benefits of size can only be realizedwithin a culture that values teamwork, partnershipand execution.• One should be a leader – not a follower – as our industryirreversibly consolidates in a globalizing world.• A diversified model will prove to have competitiveadvantage in terms of creating shareholder valueover time.• Managements and boards have to manage with alonger-term outlook and resist the pressures of thequarter-to-quarter mindset of the market.• Building the best performance culture in the industrywill ensure that all of the inherent potential of size isharvested and maximized.• Relationships matter – with clients and with each otherinternally – and without them, a firm will never reachits potential and be its best.• Companies with the highest ethical values, which start atthe top and cascade all the way down, will be the greatcompanies – and we must keep raising the bar on how weachieve this in a large, complex corporation.• Surrounding yourself with people who are smarter andbetter than you are is critical because your talent poolwill be a key determinant of success.• I have been one of the most fortunate people in theworld to have had the experience and the success I havehad, and there is not one day that goes by that I don’tthink about this.So from a small town to a big city – from a small bank to abig bank, I learned much along the way – that you, in fact,never stop learning. You should always commit to be thebest you can be, you should think big and dream big, andyou should think about how you can win and what yourstrategic platform should be to create sustainable shareholdervalue. And you should do this by always, alwayshaving the right set of values and living by them.You learn that the peaks and valleys, the successes and failuresof your job and life need to be viewed with the properperspective and balance, and only with that balance andperspective can you find true north.You learn how important your family and friends are inenabling you to maintain the passion and commitment tobe the CEO of a firm like JPMorgan Chase and how privilegedyou’ve been to have been the leader.Thus, while my JPMorgan Chase career is nearing an end, anew chapter in our company’s long history is beginning. It istime to pass the baton to a new group of leaders, led byJamie Dimon, who will take this firm to the next level ofperformance, harvesting its vast potential and maximizingshareholder value through great execution.Let me close with a profound thanks to our shareholderswho have had the faith to believe in the potential of thisfirm. Thanks to our outstanding Board of Directors fortheir support and wisdom, and I want to express myspecial gratitude to retiring directors Larry Bossidy andHans Becherer whose advice and counsel over many yearshave been invaluable. Thanks to all of our clients and customersaround the world for the opportunity to serve them.And thanks – 168,000 thanks – to our talented and dedicatedemployees around the world for what they stand for andfor what they contribute every day.I could not be more excited and confident about our future.Sincerely,William B. Harrison, Jr.This is my first letter to you as the CEO of JP MorganChase. From a personal standpoint, I want to share withyou some feelings and thoughts. I feel a tremendous mix ofemotions: excitement about our potential, and a great senseof obligation and responsibility both to you, our shareholder,and to those who have built our company over theyears. They have given us an exceptional opportunity – andwe owe them not only our gratitude, but also our commitmentto deliver on our company’s potential and make themproud of what they have helped to build.We have accomplished a great deal over the last year, andwe are excited about our progress in 2005 and our plans for2006. The foundation for everything we are doing rests ona set of business principles that we believe, when executedproperly, create great companies. These principles aredescribed on our Web site: www.jpmorganchase.com. Inessence, we strive to:• Share with you the truth and offer honest assessmentsof our businesses and our prospects.• Act with integrity and honor.• Do the right thing, not necessarily the easy orexpedient thing.• Work hard and with fierce resolve to make this acompany of which our shareholders, employees,customers and communities can be proud.• Focus relentlessly on the execution of our businessprinciples.There are some specific issues that are integral to the successof our company. I would like to address them byanswering the following questions:I. Are we in the right businesses?II. Can we achieve outstanding performance?III. Are we properly managing our risks?IV. Do we have the right people and the rightcompensation strategy?V. Are we a good corporate citizen?I. Are we in the right businesses?Let me unequivocally answer this question with a resounding“yes,” for three reasons: each business is already wellpositioned – in terms of size and scope – within its specificindustry; there is exceptional value in the linkages amongour businesses; and the company’s size, scale and brands area competitive strength.Each business is already well positioned within itsspecific industryOur six major lines of business – Investment Banking,Commercial Banking, Retail Financial Services, CardServices, Asset & Wealth Management, and Treasury &Securities Services – all compete in consolidating industries.Businesses consolidate when the vast economies of scale thatcan be achieved (in systems, operations, distribution, brandand R&D, to name a few) will benefit the customer.We cannot underestimate the power of these economicforces. Nor can we ignore the inevitable impact they haveon our businesses. But change is hard – and many whoattempt it fail. The winners will be those who can providetheir customers with more access to better financial productsand services at a lower price. In this environment,size, scale and staying power matter, and all of our corebusinesses already have what it takes to succeed; but as Idiscuss later, we must continue to improve our executionskills to distinguish our company in the marketplace. Ourbusinesses do not and will not want for capital or investment.They are well equipped to survive in good and badtimes, and our customers will continually benefit fromtheir stability and efficiency, as well as the investments weare able to make in technology and innovation.Our businesses belong together, and there isexceptional value in the linkages among themAs separate entities, our businesses are currently well positioned;together they are even stronger. Putting our businessestogether makes sense only if doing so creates valuefor customers and, ultimately, shareholders. It does notwork because we want it to – it only works because it givesthe customer more for less, sooner rather than later. Wehave no interest in selling our customers products that theydo not want or need.In this context, the term “cross-sell” can be misleading.“Cross-selling” often carries negative connotations – as if itis a forced and unnatural act. In fact, it should be describedmore appropriately as “natural product-line extensions,”which businesses have been doing successfully for hundredsof years. Wal-Mart has continually expanded the types ofproducts it sells. Twenty years ago, who would havethought that it would sell lettuce and tomatoes? Theseproduct-line extensions are true also for Home Depot, commercialbanks, investment banks, stockbrokers and evenmanufacturers. GE Aircraft Engines now finances and serviceswhat it manufactures. The essence of what makes thissuccessful is that the customer is the winner.By extending our product lines, we are able to leverage thesubstantial investments we have made to build our distributionsystem (e.g., branches, technology and sales people),strengthen our brand and earn the trust of our customers.For example, today our branches, which are our retailstores, not only accept deposits and provide access to cash,but also sell investments, mortgages, home equity loans,debit and credit cards, and online bill paying services, aswell as small business loans, international funds transfers,payroll services, annuities, etc.Our clear “natural product” set is financial services, whichis what individuals and businesses want and expect from us.Where the products are “manufactured” is of little interestto them. What is important to them and to us is ourability to provide a better product, or package of products,at a lower cost. Our challenge is to view this from theirperspective and ensure that our collective resources arefocused accordingly.In addition to providing substantial potential for growth,our mix of businesses presents us with fertile ground forinnovation. Here are a few examples of how our businessesare working together:Retail and Card Services. The competitive advantage isformidable when our retail bank – which serves almost10 million households – joins forces with our credit cardcompany, with its 110 million cardholders. This collaborationshould result in excellent new products that addressspecific consumer needs. For example, we may be able tomake life much simpler for our customers by linking creditand debit cards and by offering them other products. Theresults of recent efforts are promising: credit card sales inour retail branches are up nearly 100% from two years ago.Commercial Banking and Retail. A strong connectionalready exists between our Commercial Bank and our retailbranches. In fact, there are few successful commercial banksin America that do not have a retail bank – and for goodreason. A large share of retail business comes from smallbusinesses and mid-sized companies. Many use branches astheir financial back offices for cash, payroll processing andwire transfer services. This interdependency is cost effectivefor us and beneficial to our customers. In addition, businessaccounts often lead to new personal accounts and vice versa.Investment Banking and Commercial Banking. A natural connectionexists between an investment bank, which essentiallyserves large public companies, and a commercialbank, which essentially serves mid-sized to small publicand non-public companies. Our Commercial Bank alreadygenerates hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues fromoffering its clients traditional investment banking services(e.g., advisory, debt and equity underwriting). Over thenext few years, we believe that we can double CommercialBanking’s revenues from these activities. In cities likeIndianapolis, Austin, Denver and Tucson – where ourInvestment Bank does not have a physical presence – localbusinesses have strong relationships with our commercialbankers. These bankers know when their clients are contemplatingtransactions and need access to investmentbanking expertise. The connection is valuable for clientsand beneficial to us. It enables our Investment Bank togenerate revenues from its product expertise that it couldnot have previously produced without the client relationship.And it enables the Commercial Bank to better serveits clients by providing them with the additional productsthat they need.Treasury & Securities Services; Asset & Wealth Management.Another important connection exists between Treasury &Securities Services and our other businesses. Many of ourmajor customers (institutional, middle market, small businessand retail) use TSS for activities such as cash, checks,ACH payments, wire transfer and custody. TSS generatesapproximately $9 billion of annual revenue by serving thesecustomers. Asset & Wealth Management also benefits fromworking with other businesses, including managing assetsfor corporate clients, helping them meet their complex pensionand investment needs, and offering products fromacross the company to individual clients.Plenty of other examples exist, but the critical pointremains: while each business should do well on its own, itshould also be able to capitalize on our company’s extensiveand unique set of products and services to more fully andprofitably meet customer needs. There is certainly no reasonwhy they should do worse because they are part of thisinstitution. The key, of course, is that the customers mustbe the winners.The size and scale of the company are a competitivestrengthThe size, scale and scope of JPMorgan Chase also offer hugeadvantages: economies of scale in operations and systems;diversification of capital, risk and earnings; a great globalbrand; and the capability to make large investments at alower cost of capital. In particular, the benefits of size andscale in operations and systems are vast, and they are real.Our diversified earning streams lower our risk, increase ourcredit ratings and reduce the cost of our capital. And sinceone of our major costs is the cost of money, the ability toraise funds cheaper, better, faster and more effectively aroundthe world than other companies is a major advantage.But size alone is not enough to win. In fact, if not properlymanaged, it can bring many negatives. Huge companiesoperating in complex, consolidating and fiercely competitiveindustries like ours can only achieve and sustain theirsuccess by competing where the “rubber hits the road” – atthe level of the store, the product and the banker – not atcorporate headquarters. We must equip those employees onthe front lines to be responsive and responsible. The waywe manage our size will reflect how much we recognize andrespect this imperative. Bureaucracy and waste are lethal.To remain healthy and vibrant, we must constantly andconsistently minimize bureaucracy, eliminate waste andinsist upon excellent execution.II. Can we achieve outstanding performance?“Yes,” but we are not there yet. Good positioning does notassure great performance. Creating great performance is notmystical; it takes consistent effort, focus, hard work anddiscipline.The starting point for us is to admit where we are. Anyway one analyzes our businesses, for the most part our costsare too high, our returns on capital are too low and ourgrowth is not what it could be.We are underperforming financially in many areas. Weneed to understand the reasons and focus our energy onmaking improvements, not excuses. We cannot afford towaste time justifying mediocrity. Each line of businessnow assesses its performance in a rigorous and very detailedway. Each compares results to targets in a variety of areas,including sales force productivity, customer service andsystems development.It is not enough for the overall business to make its profittargets. It would be unacceptable to achieve good financialreturns by reducing expenses that are critical investmentsfor the future or by compromising the quality of businessthat we do. The best way to reach and sustain a higher levelof performance is to get every part of the business to stepup its game. For example, we have some businesses that, ingeneral, achieve adequate returns. These results are oftenproduced when a few exceptional business segments do theheavy lifting for the rest. We cannot use our strengths inone part of our business to subsidize our weaknesses inanother part.We spend a lot of time on capital and return on capital.How we allocate capital should reflect our understanding ofhow changes in the economy – and the likely length andintensity of the cycles they cause – will affect specific partsof our business. Where will the risks and growth opportunitiesbe? For example, there will be another recession; wejust do not know when. What we do know, however, is thatwhen it happens, our annual credit costs will increase substantially.Therefore, when we talk about return on capital,we must look at it through the cycle, not just during thebest parts of the cycle.Many companies that compete in our businesses have beenwell managed and able to produce excellent results fordecades. We have every reason to be among them. Timewill tell if we are. We have made progress, but not enough.To get outstanding performance, we must instill the followingdisciplines deep into the fiber of our company.Become lean and efficientThis is an imperative. One cannot achieve great performancein fiercely competitive industries without beinglean and efficient. It is irresponsible to waste our criticalresources on expenditures that have nothing to do withbetter serving our clients and building a great company.We need to use our resources to grow, innovate, market,hire productive people and build systems. It is not justabout cutting costs. A company cannot become great justby cutting costs. It is about building better systems to betterserve our customers. It is about paying our people notonly fairly, but effectively, to help create the right behavior.It is about how we run meetings. It is about designing theright products that are also profitable. (Many companiesdesign products that lose money, and they do not evenknow it.) It is about constantly improving productivity.We must continually ask ourselves: Can the same investmentin the same area be better spent? Does every businessstrive to get the most out of its resources? The InvestmentBank, for example, has many businesses, depending uponhow you measure it. Does each business spend its moneyefficiently and wisely? Are we spending the right amountin the right way and expecting the right results? Last year,we spent over $1 billion in marketing to get 11 million newcredit card accounts. Can we spend more and get even betterresults? We probably can. This year, we want to bothspend more and get more from every dollar we spend.When we determine that we can and are spending moneywisely, we will want to spend more, not less.Since the merger, we have realized $1.9 billion in mergersavings. However, much more is needed to achieve what wewould consider to be real efficiency. This past year, welaunched and completed major projects aimed at increasingour efficiency and improving our customer service over thelong run. They include: • Completing the largest credit card conversion in history.This effort combined over 30 million heritage Chase andBank One accounts onto a single platform and providedus with a single best-in-class system to better serve ourcustomers (and at a lower cost).• Integrating and upgrading all of our businesses inTexas – in terms of products, brand, systems andoperations – where we have 20,000 employees serving2 million customers.• Converting all U.S. dollar clearing to one platform globally,an operation that processes an average of $3.2 trilliondaily for 200,000 clients worldwide.• Executing the largest merger of mutual fund families inU.S. history, affecting 1.1 million fund shareholders.• Completing the first and second construction phases ofour new Global Services Center in Bangalore, India, andhiring 8,700 employees to meet increased demand anddeliver more services from India.• Migrating much of the company’s production, disasterrecovery, and development and test systems into a newdata center. The move increases our data storage capability,enhances our resiliency, reduces infrastructure pointsof failure and lowers overall cost to the firm.Over this next year, we will continue to massivelyupgrade and streamline our systems and operations.Highlights include:• Converting and upgrading all of our operations in theNew York tri-state market, beginning in the secondquarter. This will be one of the most visible bank conversionsin our industry and will have an impact on allof our businesses – specifically, 4.8 million depositaccounts representing over $190 billion, and involvesmore than 400 heritage Chase branches and over 3,000teller workstations.• Providing our retail and wholesale customers with uniformInternet platforms, upgrading loan origination systemsand implementing a new mortgage servicing system.• Substantially improving infrastructure, including datacenters, networks and financial management systems.We cannot build a great company unless we are unrelentingin our efforts to be a lean and efficient company. This mustbecome a permanent part of our mindset.Remove barriers to successAs I mentioned before, excessive bureaucracy is lethal. Itslows us down, distracts us from our clients and demoralizesgood employees. We must act with more openness, passionand urgency. The process of busting bureaucracy never ends,but what is different now is that our employees are engagedin challenging the system and solving the problems.We continue to attack bureaucracy and improve all aspectsof our management practices, including:• Accountability and decision making: Central to the changeswe have undertaken is the realignment of corporate staff.Now embedded in the businesses are many of the stafffunctions – like finance and systems – that used to beconcentrated at the corporate level. The realignment givesour businesses greater ability to manage their supportfunctions. For staff, better access to the businesses theysupport provides them with more knowledge and control.The restructuring will lead to better accountability,transparency and reporting, which in turn will improveexecution and overall corporate risk management.• Management information and discipline: It is hard to acton the truth if you do not know what it is. We wantmanagers to have the tools and information to run theirbusinesses as if they owned them. With this goal inmind, we now produce thousands of increasingly accuratereports that provide managers with specific informationon their performance. In addition, we give themtools to proactively eliminate waste and manage theirresources. Better reporting has dramatically improvedthe effectiveness of our business review meetings.Without this information, these meetings are often awaste of time. They now are convened at many levels ofthe company and focus on where we are and need to be,relative to our own benchmarks and the best performers in each business. As a result of these discussions, we areable to establish real targets for our businesses in termsof growth, margins, returns, market share, etc.• People practices: We have rationalized human resourceprocesses by eliminating several unnecessary proceduresand personnel to place accountability for managing peoplesquarely where it belongs – with line managers. Forexample, performance reviews have been revamped andsimplified, training has been streamlined and executivecoaches have been eliminated. (We think coaching is themanager’s job.) Performance reviews should facilitate,not prevent, meaningful, honest and comprehensiveresults-oriented exchanges between managers and theirdirect reports. Yet over time, the process grew to take ona life of its own and became a hindrance. Now the barriersare being removed. In addition, we have created aforum for discussion of our talent and made people managementgenerally, and diversity in particular, part of theagenda of senior manager meetings across the company.We remain devoted to our people and their development,but we will use management accountability, notbureaucratic processes, to prove it. We want our peopleto communicate openly, easily and constructively.Focus resources where we can succeed and winWe have sold or liquidated several businesses that eitherdid not fit our strategy or did not contribute significantlyto our long-term success. For these reasons, we soldBrownCo, and businesses in manufactured housing andrecreational vehicles. We also announced the sale of ourinsurance business and have dramatically reduced the size ofour auto leasing business.By discontinuing or reducing our commitment to ancillarybusinesses, we availed ourselves of billions of dollars in capital.We redeployed this capital in businesses where we canwin. For example, we invested in JPMorgan Cazenove, aninvestment banking joint venture in the United Kingdom(which already shows promising results); expanded ourglobal trade management operations with the purchase ofVastera; and acquired the Sears Canada private-label creditcard portfolio. In addition, we have recently completedthe purchase of a consumer educational loan business,Collegiate Funding Services, that both processes andunderwrites loans. These are all transactions that positionus for real growth.We have also freed up and redirected our capital to supportinnovation. We want to make innovation part of our DNA.This does not mean spending hundreds of millions ofdollars on failed ideas. It does mean, however, that wewill take calculated risks, knowing that some will fail.Progressive thinking should be reflected in every conversation,every analysis, and every product and service weprovide. We have many new products coming out this yearthat we think will fill this bill.The ultimate goal: create organic growthProfitable, sustainable, properly underwritten growth isnot a vision. It is the result of excellent managementdiscipline, an unrelenting focus on execution, consistentmanagement of risk, a competitive product set andoutstanding customer service.The level of effort and expense associated with mergeractivities and systems consolidation has been predictablyhuge. So the fact that we were able to absorb the impact –and still cut costs and materially increase investment spending– is a source of pride to all of us. What is even moregratifying, however, is to see evidence of real growth inmost businesses, something that is often a casualty inmerger consolidations.In 2005, real growth – albeit not always great growth –took place across the board. Retail increased its deposits,checking accounts and credit cards. Commercial Bankingachieved growth in leasing, middle market lending and liabilitybalances. Treasury & Securities Services producedmore custody business and had growth in liability balances.Asset & Wealth Management increased the level of assetsunder management. Card Services had growth in new customers,partners, card receivables and spending. Revenuesin the Investment Bank increased in M&A, asset-backedsecurities, high-yield bonds and energy trading.Equally important, we materially increased investmentin areas that will drive future growth. Specifics include:spending hundreds of millions of dollars to open 150 newbranches (this will drive growth in 2007 and beyond);adding more retail loan officers; hiring additional privatebankers; funding the build-out of our energy and mortgagetrading capabilities in the Investment Bank; and investingin state-of-the-art “blink” credit card technology (whichenables customers to use credit cards for small paymentswithout having to sign anything). Now being piloted insix cities, blink is an investment that has put us at the forefrontof changes in payment systems and card innovation.In addition to making across-the-board investments tobuild our businesses, we are making investments in ourinfrastructure that anticipate growth and prepare us tosuccessfully manage it for years to come. In 2005, weinvested over $1 billion in platform conversions, includingthose for Texas and Card Services.By consolidating and improving platforms, we are eliminatingthe inefficiencies and competitive disadvantagesassociated with multiple operating platforms. In the process,we will create best-in-class platforms in many areas, such asglobal cash clearing, credit card, retail branches and some ofour trading business. We believe that long-term success isnot possible without great systems and operations. They willdrive efficiency, innovation and speed to market. Much ofthis will be accomplished by the end of 2006.III. Are we properly managing our risks?Almost all of our businesses are risk-taking businesses –and we spend a great deal of time thinking about allaspects and types of risk inherent in them, including:• Consumer and wholesale credit risk• Market and trading risk• Interest rate and liquidity risk• Reputation and legal risk• Operational and catastrophic riskThe notable fact about the first three risk areas is that theyare cyclical, and all of them have elements of unpredictability.This requires us to be prepared for inevitable cycles. Acompany that properly manages itself in bad times is oftenthe winner. For us, sustaining our strength is a strategicimperative. If we are strong during tough times – whenothers are weak – then the opportunities can be limitless.Protecting the company is paramount. I will highlight thetypes of risks we focus on to give you a sense of the threatthey pose and how we plan for it.Consumer and wholesale credit riskOver the years, our company has substantially reduced itswholesale credit exposure by using a disciplined process forextending credit and maximizing return on shareholdercapital. In the consumer market, we have controlled ourrisk by limiting the amount of low-prime and sub-primecredit we issue in our card and other consumer businesses.In addition, we have decided, at the expense of losing somevolume, not to offer higher-risk, less-tested loan products,such as negatively amortizing Option ARMs.While we are taking the right steps, we estimate that ina recession, consumer and wholesale credit costs couldpossibly get worse by more than $5 billion. This dauntingreality requires us to be prepared and well protected.Protection #1 is having larger and more durable profits toabsorb the losses. We are accomplishing this by increasingour margins virtually across the board. Protection #2 ismaintaining a fortress balance sheet. We try to understandand manage every asset and every liability and make surethat someone is accountable for each one. It also meansmaintaining, as much as possible, strong loan loss reserves.Finally, having a well-capitalized firm is critical. WithTier 1 capital at 8.5% and total capital at 12%, we believe weare there. The important point is that we need to managethe business, the balance sheet and the investments to earnadequate returns through the cycles and to be prepared forsurprises. We do not want to realize high returns at the top,only to give them all back at the worst part of the cycle. Market and trading risk, and interest rate andliquidity riskWe need to manage our risk–return payoff better in 2006.In 2005, our trading volatilities were unacceptably high.The $6 billion in trading revenues (not a bad result on itsown) was the result of two great quarters and two quarterswhere we underperformed. We think that is too muchvolatility, and reducing it is one of our priorities. I believewe can accomplish this by continuing to diversify our tradingbusiness, by being more disciplined and precise in theexecution of our risk management practices, and by hiringand retaining the best talent. We intend to deliver better,more consistent results over time, while maintaining ouraggregate risk-taking appetite.The good news is that we have aggressively invested to generatemore diversified and consistent returns. For example, wehave added energy trading, and increased our activities inmortgage- and asset-backed securities, and principal investing.We have leadership positions in credit markets and inour derivatives franchises, and we will continue to invest inorder to sustain them. And while in the short run, some ofthis has actually increased volatility, we are convinced thatour efforts – consistently applied – will succeed. However,we caution our shareholders not to expect immediate results.Interest rate exposure is another area in which financialservices companies can assume excess risk – often at greatperil. As with underwriting credit, good analysis of interestrate exposure is rooted in facts and evaluations that arebased upon a variety of realistic assumptions and scenarios.We devote substantial resources to understanding howinterest rate changes will affect our performance. Thisanalysis should be – and will be – an ongoing process. Webelieve that our company has carefully managed its interestrate risk so that even dramatic moves in rates of several percentagepoints cannot alone damage the company.A healthy liquidity profile is essential to the ongoing viabilityof any company, financial or otherwise. We use a varietyof tools to maintain a strong liquidity position at theparent and subsidiary companies, including stress scenarios,collateral management and a conservative debt structure forthe company overall. We engage in a continual dialoguewith major rating agencies, and we are focused on maintainingand improving our strong credit ratings.Reputation and legal riskThe litigation costs in business are well known. We areintensely focused on ways to safeguard the firm’s reputationand exposure. They include:• Senior management endorsement of a code of conductthat all employees must sign and adhere to, as well as acommitment to provide appropriate training.• A strong and independent compliance program thatencourages employees to assist in surfacing complianceand ethical issues, and identifying money laundering andterrorist financing activities.• A more robust due diligence process focused on securitiesunderwriting transactions, where we have establishedcentralized oversight of our processes and standards.• A disciplined governance process to address conflicts andreview transactions that may present conflicts that couldharm the firm now or in the future.• A productive and open dialogue with our regulators andan ongoing emphasis on staying alert to changes in regulatorystandards.We believe that these actions will mitigate our exposure,but we recognize, unfortunately, that they will not eliminateit. We have also implemented a disciplined process tocontinually review our liabilities and establish appropriatelitigation reserves. While we make every effort to properlymanage the company to reduce litigation and legal costs,we believe that our shareholders should assume that highlegal costs will continue for the foreseeable future. Theyshould be viewed, unfortunately, as simply a higher, permanentcost of doing business than in the past.Operational and catastrophic riskThis year, we also made progress in strengthening our operationalrisk management programs. We have a consistentapproach across all businesses for defining and aggregatingour exposure to potential operational loss. This approachhelps us determine whether we will be adequately capitalizedin the event of such a loss. In addition to carefullymanaging operational risk, we need to be prepared forunforeseen disasters. Catastrophic risk can take a variety offorms and significantly impair the performance and theoperations of the company. We have formal disaster recoveryand contingency plans in place. They worked well duringHurricane Katrina and the bombings in London, butwe must continue to refine them as new risks appear.Whatever the type of risk, the key point is that we try tohave a comprehensive approach to managing it. Thisrequires that the right people be in the right jobs and thatthere be clear accountability in each business for managingrisk in addition to rigorous corporate oversight.IV. Do we have the right people and the rightcompensation strategy?At the end of the day, it all comes down to people. We havegreat people in this company. As I travel across the UnitedStates and around the world, I have become increasinglyimpressed with the talent and potential of our employees.Rarely can a company assemble this level of creative firepowerand professional competence.To maximize the collective strength of our people, we willneed to work better as a team. Great teams are not greatbecause they have star athletes. Great teams are greatbecause the players have learned how to work together andfocus their collective energy and talent on winning. We arein the early stages of building a great team.The compensation cycle was difficult but productive thisyear. We are getting better at relating pay to performance.But there is still room for improvement. Increasingly, wealso must orient ourselves to absolute performance against best-in-class targets, not simply improvement in performance.We want to be clear and truthful when we rate ourselves,and fair as well as effective when evaluating performance.Good performance goes beyond individual productivity toinclude group, unit and company performance. Compensationis not an entitlement; it should reflect an individual’s and ateam’s contribution to helping make this a great company.We want to be one of the best-paying companies – but onlywhen we are one of the best-performing companies.We also want our employees to feel and act like owners,which is why stock is an important part of our compensationplans. Today more than 120,000 employees own, orhave an option to own, approximately 14% of shares in thecompany. Executive Committee members are required toretain 75% of their stock awards as long as they are withthe company. And in general, stock options are awarded ona limited basis.We continually review our benefits programs to assure thatthey are of value to employees and cost effective. For example,the company has excellent medical benefits programs,but we subsidize them more for lower-paid employees thanwe do for higher-paid employees. (I hope that this instills asense of pride in our managers.)In addition, we no longer match highly paid employeesin their 401(k); they have adequate pensions. We do notoffer perks to executives like club memberships, financialplanning and leased cars. We are reducing excessive executiveseverance plans. But more importantly, we are payingour employees more. Our thinking is simple – less compensationthrough entitlements, more from performance.We want to pay more and let our employees spend whatthey earn as they see fit.We need to constantly remind ourselves that the mostimportant thing we can do for employees is to build ahealthy, vibrant company that treats people with respectand creates opportunity. Morale is not based upon perks;morale builds from respect, growth, innovation and success;from establishing a true meritocracy; from the stock performingwell; from customers liking to do business with us.A great company will provide people with competitivecompensation, the opportunity to benefit as the companygrows and a rewarding career path. V. Are we a good corporate citizen?JPMorgan Chase has been – and will continue to be –a good corporate citizen. It is vitally important andenormously gratifying to all of us. Our commitment toour communities is deep, broad and multifaceted. Westrive to be a great place to work and do business, and oursuccess allows us to give back to the neighborhoods andcities we serve.In one sense, we view ourselves as a small business. If wewere the neighborhood store, we would give kids summerjobs, sponsor local sports teams and support community-basedorganizations. We operate this way in many of ourcommunities around the world, striving to be as supportiveas we can in all the communities we serve.We add value by focusing on issues that are universallyimportant, including education and community development.We dedicate resources to develop signature programsthat help communities overcome the challenges they face inthese areas. We are morally, programmatically and institutionallycommitted to inclusiveness and diversity.JPMorgan Chase contributes more than $100 million annuallyto support local, national and international initiatives.Examples include:• Chase Early Emergent Leaders in Arizona, wherewe are funding a leadership and training program, andproviding technological assistance and training inliteracy skills.• Corporation for Supportive Housing in Ohio, wherewe are helping the homeless as well as individuals recoveringfrom drug and alcohol addiction by giving themaccess to 300 units of affordable housing and providingthem with the support they need to live independent,responsible and healthy lives.• South Bank Centre in London, where we are supportingmusic and technology education that will help bringartistic programs to thousands of young people.• DonorsChoose in Chicago, where we are participatingin an effort that uses the Internet to connect donorsnationwide with underserved classrooms. We are helpingto expand this program for public schools in statesaffected by Hurricane Katrina.• StreetSquash in New York City’s Harlem neighborhood,where we are funding a community youth facilitythat will serve over 1,000 students through academic andathletic programs.• Wilmington Housing Partnership in Delaware, whereour support is helping develop over 300 affordable housingunits in our local communities.Our commitment to community involvement goes wellbeyond philanthropy. Across the country and around theworld, we bring this commitment to life through a broadrange of initiatives:• Community reinvestment. We have received outstandingratings under the Community Reinvestment Act. Inthe past two years, we have fulfilled $140 billion of an$800 billion, 10-year commitment in the United Statesto provide community-development loans and investments,small business loans and consumer mortgages forlower-income and minority households.• Community schools. We support community schools,which cost-effectively provide students in low-incomecommunities with access to a broad range of services,including academic, health and extracurricular activities.In Chicago, we are partnering with the civic community,nonprofit groups and the Chicago Public School systemto bring this model to scale. To date, 120 schools (20%)have been converted into community schools.• Youth opportunity. We provide scholarships andinternships to the underprivileged through ourSmart Start program in New York City, and intend toexpand the program to Louisiana in 2006. In both theUnited States and the United Kingdom, we work toplace outstanding students of color in summer internpositions through Sponsors for Educational Opportunity.We are also a significant contributor to UNCF. Volunteerism. Around the globe, employees buildhomes for people in need, work with children living inhomeless shelters, collect food and gifts at holiday time,offer companionship to seniors, maintain our parks andprovide relief to victims of disasters.• Workforce development. We help homeless people,welfare recipients, individuals with disabilities, andlow-wage workers move toward economic and familystability by supporting organizations like Project Matchand the hiring of individuals through the Chicago-basedCara program.• Hurricane relief. When Katrina struck the U.S. GulfCoast, we tracked down our employees, guaranteedtheir jobs and provided funds to help them rebuild theirlives. We offered programs and services to customersand communities, and let our competitors operate out ofour branches.• Supporting employees serving in the military. Werecognize the hardships employees face when called toactive duty. We are doing whatever we can to supportthem by providing paid military leave, continuing mostbenefits and ensuring their jobs are waiting for themwhen they come home. We do not want to add financialhardship to their great sacrifice.• Protecting the environment. We have adopted a comprehensivepolicy that makes environmental awarenesspart of our business model. We have tackled environmentalrisk management and taken a leadership role toreduce greenhouse gas emissions. We are looking forways to make our facilities more energy efficient andreduce the amount of paper we use.Of all these worthwhile efforts, the ones I find most personallyinspiring come from our employees. All over the world,JPMorgan Chase employees of every nationality, race andsocioeconomic background give their time and put theirresources where their hearts are. They consistently standready to support disaster relief around the world, whetherfor victims of hurricanes in Louisiana, earthquakes inPakistan, floods in Mumbai or bombings in London.We take our role as global corporate citizen seriously andpersonally, and I hope that all of our employees are proudof the work we collectively do around the world.In closing, our progress would not have been possible withouttremendous dedication and talent at every level. Firstly,I want to thank Bill Harrison for his vision, leadership andgreat partnership. It has been an honor to work with himthroughout this complex merger. The experience has beena rewarding one for me personally. Bill’s openness, honesty,maturity and experience are a great inspiration to me.I look forward to his counsel and support in the future.In addition, I thank our Board. Like this merger, our Boardhas come together in a very effective way, and has providedgreat advice and guidance to me and the management team.Finally, I thank the employees of JPMorgan Chase for theiramazing efforts in 2005. We have come a long way andare well on the road to realizing the vast potential of thiscompany. An enormous amount of work remains, but I amconfident that by working together, we will build the bestfinancial services company in the world.James DimonChief Executive OfficerMarch 8, 2006