The past two years have been among the most extraordinary and challenging inrecent history for JPMorgan Chase, the financial services industry and the globaleconomy. We have endured a once-in-a-generation economic, political and socialstorm, the impact of which will continue to be felt for years or even decades to come.As we see signs of recovery and the debates about financial reform wage on, it’seasy for us to forget the fear and panic we felt a year ago. The market was down anastonishing 50% from its 2008 highs to its low on March 9, 2009. More important,as I write this letter, our country has lost 8.4 million jobs in what has turned out tobe a more serious, sustained economic crisis than most of us have ever experiencedbefore — or may experience again.For JPMorgan Chase, these past two years have been part of a challenging, yetdefining, decade. We began it as three separate companies: Bank One, Chase andJ.P. Morgan, with each facing serious strategic and competitive challenges. Today, ourstrategic position is clear, and JPMorgan Chase is a leader in all of its businesses.If you had been a Bank One shareholder from 2000 to year-end 2009 (this representsapproximately 40% of the current company) and you held on to your stock, youwould have received a total return on your investment of 131%. Over the same timeperiod, if you were a Chase or J.P. Morgan shareholder, your returns would have been12% and 70%, respectively. By comparison, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index wasdown 9% over the same period.Throughout this decade, we made and executed on many transformative decisions.When the global financial crisis unfolded in 2008, the people of JPMorgan Chaseunderstood the vital role our firm needed to play and felt a deep responsibility to ourmany stakeholders. It is this sense of responsibility that enables us to move beyond thedistractions of the moment and stay focused on what really matters: taking care of ourclients, helping the communities in which we operate and protecting our company.It is because of this focus — even amid the daunting and ongoing challenges — thatwe are able to weather this economic crisis and continue to play a central, if sometimesmisunderstood, role in rebuilding the U.S. economy. This is a testimony to thecollective strength of character and commitment of our people. Since those firstchaotic days in early 2008, many of our people have worked around the clock, sevendays a week, for months on end. On March 16, 2008, we announced our acquisition of Bear Stearns at the requestof the U.S. government; on September 25, 2008, 10 days after the collapse ofLehman Brothers, we bought Washington Mutual. We loaned $70 billion in theglobal interbank market when it was needed the most. With markets in completeturmoil, we were the only bank willing to commit to lend $4 billion to the state ofCalifornia, $2 billion to the state of New Jersey and $1 billion to the state of Illinois.Additionally — and, frequently, when no one else would — we loaned or raised forour clients $1.3 trillion, providing more than $100 billion to local governments,municipalities, schools, hospitals and not-for-profits over the course of 2009.Our industry and our country are continuing to face some serious challenges, butwe believe that the strengths of our nation — our resiliency, ability to reform andinnovate, work ethic and culture — will put us on the right track again to globalfinancial soundness. JPMorgan Chase will remain focused, and we will continuedoing our part.In the following sections of this letter, I’ll talk about a range of issues that bear onour company, our industry and our country:I. How our company fared in 2009 — with a focus on what we actually do as abank to serve our clients and customers and what we did to respond to thecrisis and help the communities in which we operateII. How we manage our people — JPMorgan Chase’s most valuable assetIII. Our support of financial reform that will strengthen the financial systemIV. Our responsibility and America’s successOverall results — performance improved from2008 but still was not greatOur revenue this year was a record $100billion, up from $67 billion in 2008. The largeincrease in revenue was due primarily to theinclusion for the full year of WashingtonMutual (WaMu) and the dramatic turnaroundin revenue in our Investment Bank. Profitswere $12 billion, up from $6 billion in theprior year but down from $15 billion in theyear before that. While these results representa large improvement over 2008, they still arean inadequate return on capital – a return ontangible equity of only 10%. Relative to ourcompetition, our company fared extremelywell. We did not suffer a loss in any singlequarter over the two-year crisis (we may havebeen one of the few major global financialfirms to achieve this). In absolute financialterms, however, our results were mediocre.Maintaining our fortress balance sheet andcommenting on our dividendDuring this difficult year, the strategic imperativesthat have defined and distinguishedour company continued to serve us well. Wemaintained our focus on risk management;high-quality capital; strong loan loss reserves;honest, transparent reporting; and appropriatelyconservative accounting. We maintainedan extremely strong Tier 1 Commonratio, which stood at 8.8% at year-end. Wealso increased our loan loss reserves over thecourse of the year from $23.2 billion to $31.6billion, an extremely strong 5.5% of totalloans outstanding. Our relentless focus on ourbalance sheet has always enabled us to prevailthrough tough times and seize opportunitieswhile continuing to invest in our businesses.It served us extremely well over this period.Early in 2009, we cut our annual dividendfrom $1.52 to $0.20 per share – a drastic movepremised on the need to be prepared for aprolonged and potentially terrible economy.We hope to be able to increase the dividend toan annual range of $0.75 to $1.00 per share. Todo so, we would like to see three specific thingshappen: several months of actual improvementin U.S. employment; a significant reductionin consumer charge-offs (which improvesearnings and diminishes the need for additionalloan loss reserves); and more certaintyaround the regulatory requirements for bankcapital levels. Possible changes in capital andliquidity requirements as well as some taxproposals are creating uncertainty around ourfuture capital needs. We hope there will bemore clarity regarding these issues soon.Many companies had to measurably dilutetheir shareholders because of this crisis. Wedid not. The only time we issued a materialamount of stock was when we did it offensivelyto finance the WaMu purchase (andmaintain our very high capital ratios). We alsohope to be in a position to resume stock buybacksin the near future. But our first priorityis – and always has been – to invest ourcapital to grow our businesses organically and,secondarily, to make valuable acquisitions. Webuy back stock only when we think it is a goodvalue for our shareholders relative to the valueof other opportunities. And if we use our stockin an acquisition, we do so because we believethe value we’re getting is at least equal to thevalue we’re giving.Increasing our efficiencyOverall, we are a far more efficient companythan we were five years ago, following theJPMorgan Chase -Bank One merger. Since then,we’ve consolidated virtually all of our operatingplatforms, networks and data centers,and we have excellent technology and best-in-class financial and risk systems. We alsohave exceptional legal, finance, compliance,risk, human resources and audit staff. Today, the cost of this improved level of operationand service per dollar of revenue is significantlylower than in the past. To give justone example, our total technology and operationsand corporate overhead costs would bemore than $9 billion higher today if they wererunning at the same cost per dollar of revenueas in 2005.Continuing to investThrough the worst of the past two years, wenever stopped investing. This has includedacquisitions, foremost among them BearStearns and Washington Mutual; investmentsin infrastructure, including systems and technology;new products, for example in CardServices; and the addition of bankers andbranches around the world. These investmentsset us up for continued organic growth.Preparing for tougher global competitionThe competitive landscape is rapidly changing.Many companies did not make it or had tobe dramatically restructured. We expect thistrend to continue in both the United Statesand Europe. We and others who survivedbenefited from market share gains (in fact,we gained market share in virtually all of ourbusinesses). But we must be prepared for allof our competitors to come roaring back. Withcertain competitors and in certain parts of theworld, this already is happening. We do nottake this lightly.Protecting the company in uncertain timesYou read about it every day: continued globaltrade imbalances, higher fiscal deficits runby governments around the world, uncertaininterest rate movements and potential regulatorychanges, among other issues. I could go onfor pages. Rest assured, we are paying very closeattention to the difficult issues we still face.Following is a recap of our line of businessresults. In this section, I will focus ondescribing what we as a bank actually do,which seems to be so often misunderstood.As you read these results, I hope you will feelas I do – that we have excellent franchises,focused on doing a great job for our customers(even though we do make mistakes), and thatwe have been continuously and deliberatelyinvesting for future growth. Results by line of business:Great leadership amid great challengesThe Investment Bank reported net income of$6.9 billion with an ROE of 21%Overall resultsThe Investment Bank (IB) delivered recordperformance across the board: net income of$6.9 billion on revenue of $28.1 billion. Theseresults were led by best-ever Global Marketsrevenue of $22 billion and record investmentbanking fees of $7.2 billion. The IB generateda return on equity of 21% on $33 billion ofallocated capital, our best result in five years.We clearly benefited from higher bid-offerspreads and higher volumes as the industryconsolidated and vulnerable companieswere distracted. In terms of market share,we achieved a #1 ranking in every majorglobal capital-raising league table category.We do not, however, take this position forgranted and understand that maintainingand growing our market share will undoubtedlybe tough going forward. We believeour success was due to the dedication of our25,000 employees, who were working hard toserve our clients every day.What we do in Corporate FinanceGlobally, we have more than 2,000 investmentbankers, who serve the corporate finance needsof 5,000 institutions around the world. Morethan 1,000 of these clients are sovereign governments,state and municipal governments, internationalquasi-government agencies, hospitals,schools and not-for-profits; the others are generallycorporations and financial institutions.Our job is to help these clients find appropriatefinancing, make strategic acquisitions or divestitures,and help manage their balance sheets andother exposures – such as exposure to interestrates, foreign exchange or commodity prices.In 2009, among their many activities, ourinvestment bankers:• Advised on 322 mergers and acquisitionsglobally – more than any other bank.• Loaned or syndicated loans of more than$200 billion to 295 companies, helping themgrow and create jobs.• Raised $620 billion of equity or bonds inpublic markets for clients around the world.• Raised $178 billion for the financial industry,or nearly 10% of the capital needed torebuild the financial system.• Raised $102 billion for states, municipalities,hospitals, schools and not-for-profits– to help build roads and bridges, improvesocial services, renovate local hospitalsand train people for employment. Thisfinancing included $19 billion to educationalorganizations and $14 billion tohealthcare organizations.• Committed to provide financing when otherswere not able to do so; for example:– $4 billion to California;– $2 billion to New Jersey; and– $1 billion to Illinois.• Arranged $60 billion to restructure stressedcompanies and help them recover (and keeptheir employees at work).• Invested in 58 U.S. wind farms spread across16 states. This portfolio can produce 5,843megawatts of capacity – enough energyto power some 1.6 million U.S. homes. Wealso are a leader in sourcing, developingand trading emission-reduction credits,primarily through our investments inClimateCare and EcoSecurities.In difficult times, extending this level andtype of credit is exceedingly risky andcostly. For example, in 2008 and 2009, wewrote off or reserved for approximately$8.9 billion of credit-related losses relatedto IB lending activities. What we do in Sales and TradingTrading is perhaps the least understood areaof our investment banking activities. We have6,500 professionals on approximately 120trading desks in 25 trading centers aroundthe world; these professionals include morethan 800 research analysts who educateinvestors on nearly 4,000 companies andprovide insight on 40 developed and emergingmarkets. The job of our sales and tradingprofessionals is to provide 16,000 investorclients globally with research expertise, adviceand execution capabilities to help them buyand sell securities and other financial instruments.These investors range from state andmunicipal pension plans to corporations andgovernments. We have experienced specialistswho are prepared to buy or sell largeamounts of stocks and bonds, foreign currenciesor commodities for clients and to givethem immediate cash or liquidity when theyneed it – something we never stopped doingeven at the most trying moments of thefinancial crisis. Additionally, we help organizationsmanage and hedge their risk throughproviding a range of derivatives products.Although we run our sales and trading businessto support clients, it is a risky business.We execute approximately 2 million tradesand buy and sell close to $2.5 trillion of cashand securities each day. On an average day,we own, for our account, approximately $440billion in securities – to us this is akin to theinventory of a store. We hold the securitiesso we can meet client demand. Our sales andtrading functions not only play a critical rolein helping to maintain large, liquid and well-functioningmarkets, but they are indispensableto institutions of all types seeking to raisecapital in the first place.As more clients chose to work with us in 2009,our sales and trading teams gained marketshare. We estimate that our market shareof the top 10 players in Fixed Income andEquity Markets combined grew from approximately9% in 2008 to more than 12% in 2009.Deservedly, these groups also received a lotof accolades – most gratifyingly, from client-basedsurveys.How we intend to growIn 2010, we will continue to focus on thefundamentals of investment banking: advisingcompanies and investors, raising capital,making markets and executing for our clientsworldwide. If we do this well, we are helpingnot only our clients but the global economicrecovery as well.We also are aggressively and organicallygrowing many parts of our business. Forexample, the Prime Services business weacquired from Bear Stearns – which providesmostly large investors with custody, financingand trade execution – largely was concentratedin the United States. We now are growing thisbusiness in Europe and Asia. Across the business,we will continue to invest in enhancingour technology, spending $1 billion this yearon upgrades and innovations. We also areexpanding our coverage in key markets,including China, India and Brazil – essentiallyby adding investment banking and tradingprofessionals and providing them with thecorresponding support they need (i.e., credit andsystems) to cover more corporate and investorclients in these markets. For example, in the lastfive years in India, we have gone from covering36 companies to 180 companies. We will simplygrow with the emerging economies.CazenoveAt the end of 2009, we announced that ourU.K. joint venture with Cazenove GroupLimited would become a wholly owned part ofJ.P. Morgan. Our initial investment in Cazenovein 2005 was extremely successful – amongother things, it increased our U.K. investmentbanking market share* from 5% to 13%. Wewelcome all of these employees to J.P. Morgan –Cazenove’s long tradition of integrity and clientservice sets a standard for all of us.CommoditiesWe continue to build out our Commoditiesfranchise. Price fluctuations in commoditieslike oil, gas and electricity affect many companiesthroughout the world. We help our corporateclients manage this risk by enhancingour trading and warehousing capacity. Since2006, our Commodities business has morethan doubled its revenue from serving clients.In February 2010, we announced our agreementto purchase a portion of RBS Sempra’scommodities business for $1.7 billion. Thisacquisition will give us the ability in Europe totrade oil, gas and electricity far more extensivelythan we can now; it will enhance all ofour prior U.S. capabilities; and it will add acapability to warehouse metals for clients. Italso will nearly double the number of corporateclients we serve in Commodities, to morethan 2,000.Retail Financial Services reported net incomeof $97 million with an ROE of 0%Overall resultsRetail Financial Services (RFS) continued tobe a tale of two cities. Retail Banking, whichincludes Consumer and Business Banking,earned $3.9 billion, primarily by servingcustomers through bank branches in 23 states.Consumer Lending lost $3.8 billion becauseof continued high charge-offs in the homelending business.In our fastest conversion ever, we upgraded1,800 Washington Mutual branches andmore than 40 million accounts to Chase’ssystems, products and branding. As a resultof these conversions, customers today havefull access to 5,154 Chase branches acrossthe country (from New York and Florida toCalifornia). Former WaMu customers havereceived greater access to better systems andproducts, and we did it at greatly reducedcost to the firm (approximately $2 billionfirm-wide). We now have one of the mostattractive franchises in the country, withenormous opportunities to grow.What we do in Retail BankingLast year, our 61,000 people in 5,154 Chasebranches in 23 states served more than 30million U.S. consumers and small businesses byproviding checking and savings accounts andinvestments, as well as home, business, autoand student loans. For our RFS professionals,2009 was a year of numerous accomplishments:• Retail operations teams processed 700million teller transactions, 3.5 billion debitcard purchases, 100 million ATM deposits,close to 6 billion checks and more than1.3 billion statements.• Investment advisors oversaw $120 billion inassets under management to help consumerstoward their goals.• We added 4.2 million mobile bankingcustomers and another 5.2 million newonline banking customers. We also added 2,400 branch sales staff lastyear – personal and business bankers, mortgageofficers and investment representatives– to better serve our customers.In addition, we are revamping our overdraftpolicies to meet regulatory requirements, tomake them clearer and simpler, and to givecustomers more control. Customers now canchoose if they want overdraft services for theirdebit cards, and they will have a real-timeability to see their balances over the courseof the day. These changes are ongoing andcomplex. We hope to complete them withminimal disruption and maximum consumersatisfaction. While costly (we estimate thesechanges will reduce our after-tax income byapproximately $500 million annually), webelieve these moves will strengthen our long-termrelationship with our customers.What we do in Small Business BankingIn 2009, our nearly 2,000 business bankersprovided approximately $2.3 billion in newloans (our total outstanding loans are $17billion) and other services to help 2 millionbusiness owners nationwide manage theirbusinesses. Loan origination in 2009 wasdown 58%, as customer demand decreasedsignificantly and our underwriting standardsbecame more disciplined. We expect asubstantial turnaround in 2010, and, in fact,we already are seeing increased demand frommore qualified customers.We are renewing our efforts to get more creditinto the marketplace, including adding 375small business bankers to our current workforce.In late 2009, we committed to boostinglending to small businesses by $4 billionin 2010 (to a total of $10 billion) throughincreased access to working capital, term loansfor expansion, commercial mortgages, lines ofcredit and business credit cards.What we do in Consumer LendingOur Consumer Lending business includeshome and auto loans for consumers. In termsof overall results, it was another difficult yearfor Consumer Lending, with losses of $3.8billion, driven by increased charge-offs andadditions to loan loss reserves in our homelending portfolios. As discussed last year, theselosses were the result of departures from ourtraditional (and well-tested) underwritingstandards, sharply falling home prices and thedeepening recession. While there has beensome improvement in delinquencies and homeprices in some markets, we believe that significantimprovement will depend largely on animproving economy.As expected, charge-offs in Home Lendingcontinued to rise during 2009, and we added$5.2 billion in reserves to our portfolio. Weanticipate that this portfolio will continue tolose money for the next three years (excludingreserve changes) as we work through abacklog of problem loans. The losses comenot only from charge-offs but from the costsof managing delinquencies and foreclosures(though we were able to reduce the numberof homes that we own from 12,700 in 2008to 7,400 in 2009).More positively, we took a leadership role inhelping American homeowners through themost difficult housing market of a generation.We added 6,000 people just to help homeownersthrough modification programs andother actions to prevent foreclosure. We alsoopened 34 Chase Homeownership Centersto allow struggling borrowers to talk withloan counselors face to face and have begunopening 17 more in early 2010. These effortshave allowed us to begin the mortgage modificationprocess for nearly 600,000 homeowners(approximately one-third of which are modificationsunder the government’s new HomeAffordable Modification Program, or HAMP).The mortgage business essentially hasreturned to the more disciplined underwritingof many years ago: 80% loan-to-value ratiosand income verification. In 2009, we originatedmore than $150 billion in new home loans, much of it refinancing that allowedhomeowners to lower their payments bytaking advantage of historically low interestrates. Most of the loans that we originate aresold to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or GinnieMae. We still underwrite jumbo loans (thosewith loan amounts larger than those permittedin government programs), but we have beenvery cautious. The home lending business willone day return to being a good business – itcertainly is critical to the proper functioning ofAmerica’s financial markets – and we intend tobe a leader in it.In 2009, we also became the largest U.S. autolender, financing more than 1.1 million autoloans for consumers, up 25% from 2008. Ourauto loans outstanding totaled $46 billion atthe end of 2009.How we intend to growTo provide better service to our millions ofcustomers, we plan to add 2,700 personalbankers and more than 400 investment salesrepresentatives in 2010. These efforts shouldhelp us earn new customers and broaden ourrelationships with existing customers beyondchecking accounts and other basic services. Inaddition, we expect to open at least 120 morebranches in 2010 and to ramp up our pace ofopenings in 2011 and 2012 – especially in Californiaand Florida, two of the fastest-growingU.S. markets, which were introduced to usthrough the WaMu acquisition.Card Services reported a net loss of$2.2 billionOverall resultsBy all measures, 2009 was a terrible yearfor our credit card business. The economicenvironment drove charge-off rates to all-timehighs. Card Services lost $2.2 billion(compared with last year’s profit of $780million). While I don’t want to diminish thenegative overall results, there were some positives.We were able to grow market share interms of accounts and customer spending;and our credit loss performance – 8.5% onChase cards – while poor, was better than ourcompetitors’ performance.What we do in Card ServicesOur 23,000 Card Services employees aroundthe world provide financial flexibility andconvenience to customers who, in 2009, usedChase credit cards to meet more than $328billion of their spending needs. With morethan 145 million cards in circulation held byapproximately 50 million customers with$163.4 billion in loan outstandings, Chase isamong the largest U.S. card issuers, with awide variety of general purpose credit cardsfor individual consumers and small businesses.We also issue cards with a number of partnerorganizations, such as the American Associationof Retired Persons (AARP), ContinentalAirlines, Marriott, Southwest Airlines, UnitedAirlines and Walt Disney.How we dealt with new regulationIn 2009, in addition to the terrible environment,the U.S. credit card business facedfairly dramatic changes because of a newlaw enacted by Congress in May. The newlaw restricts issuers’ ability to change ratesand prohibits certain practices that were notconsidered consumer-friendly. These changesalone are expected to reduce our after-taxincome by approximately $500 million to$750 million – but this could possibly changeas both consumers and competitors changetheir behavior. We believe that many, but not all, of thechanges made were completely appropriate.In fact, we had voluntarily eliminated certainof the targeted practices – like double-cyclebilling, which resulted in greater interestcharges for customers who revolve a balancefor the first time (2007); and universal defaultpricing, in which creditors consider credithistories with other lenders in setting rates(2008). However, because the new law makesit harder to raise rates on customers who havebecome far riskier and because all paymentsnow must go toward reducing users’ highest ratebalances (vs. lower-rate balances), we andother competitors have had to make somefairly drastic changes in the business:• We have substantially reduced very lowintroductory or promotional balancetransfers. This change alone reduced ouroutstanding balances by $20 billion.• In the future, we no longer will be offeringcredit cards to approximately 15% of thecustomers to whom we currently offer them.This is mostly because we deem them toorisky in light of new regulations restrictingour ability to make adjustments over time asthe client’s risk profile changes.• We reduced limits on credit lines, and wecanceled credit cards for customers whohad not done business with us over anextended period.In fact, the industry as a whole reduced limitsfrom a peak of $4.7 trillion to $3.3 trillion.While we believe this was proper action toprotect both consumers and card issuers, doingso in the midst of a recession did reduce asource of liquidity for some people. Ultimately,however, the change may make the card businessa more stable and better business.How we intend to growAggressive product innovation is fundamentalto the development of the credit card business.Even through the recent tumultuous times,we never stopped investing in new productsand services to meet our customers’ needs. In2009, Chase launched more products at onetime than any other issuer. New products andservices included two Chase-branded cardprograms, a rewards platform, and a newfeature to help better manage spending andborrowing. Here are some of the highlights:• The Chase SapphireSM card was developedfrom the ground up to address the needs ofaffluent consumers, with premium rewardsand exceptional service.• InkSM from Chase is a suite of businesscards offering flexible payment options andresources for small business owners.• Our new Ultimate RewardsSM program offerscountless redemption options through asingle website: www.ultimaterewards.com.• BlueprintSM is an industry-first set of featuresto improve the way Chase customers managetheir spending and borrowing, with tools tohelp consumers take charge of their finances,pay down balances and manage spending.These new products* and programs wouldbe considered major innovations at any time;but the fact that we launched them in one ofthe worst-ever U.S. consumer environments isespecially noteworthy. By delivering convenience,customization and great service, we willbuild stronger customer relationships. Evenas the credit card business has seen more thanits share of difficulties during the past year, webelieve our new products will help us rebuildtrust with our customers. It’s a process thatwill take time, but if we focus on deliveringuseful products and making financing easierfor our customers, Card Services will return tobeing a business that is good for our customersand profitable for our company. Commercial Banking reported net income of$1.3 billion with an ROE of 16%Overall resultsIn 2009, Commercial Banking overcame manychallenges to deliver exceptional financialperformance. Even as substantially highercredit costs negatively affected quarterlyresults, the business exceeded its annual planby focusing on client selection, marketingits business aggressively, managing risksand expenses, and excelling in client service.Highlights included a 20% boost in revenue to$5.7 billion; a 25% improvement in operatingmargin to $3.5 billion; double-digit increasesin both average liability balances, up 10%, andaverage loan balances, up 30%; and a 20%jump in gross investment banking revenueto $1.2 billion – a full 25% above plan. Thesewere fabulous results in any environment.What we do in Commercial BankingMore than 1,400 bankers help fulfill thefinancing needs of nearly 25,000 clients andover 30,000 real estate investors and owners.The average length of a Commercial Bankingclient relationship with us is more than 18 years.In 2009, we added over 1,700 new CommercialBanking clients and expanded more than 7,600relationships. With a team of banking, treasuryand client service professionals situated in localmarkets coast to coast and around the world,Commercial Banking delivers financial serviceswhile steadfastly supporting communities. Lastyear, Commercial Banking extended more than$73 billion in new financing, which includednearly $8 billion to the government, not-for-profitand healthcare (GN PH) and educationsectors. For example: We helped finance the construction of a$22.3 million healthcare center in the Bronx,New York, to serve an additional 18,000patients per year.• As part of more than $384 million in newand renewed commitments to GNPH andeducational entities in Ohio, we providedKent State University with needed financing.• We assisted Children’s Memorial Hospitalin Chicago in financing the constructionof a new $915 million building with a$196 million credit facility.How we intend to growHaving successfully completed the conversionof commercial client accounts acquiredthrough Washington Mutual, CommercialBanking is well-positioned to grow. The businessalready is taking advantage of Chase’sretail branch network to expand its offeringsinto five new states – California, Washington,Oregon, Georgia and Florida. We’ll now coverthese new markets by supporting a full rangeof clients, from middle market companies tolarge corporations. We are achieving this byhiring exceptional commercial bankers – morethan 50 employees by the end of 2010 alone –to serve these additional markets. Several yearsfrom now, when this expansion ultimately iscompleted, we expect it will generate hundredsof millions of dollars in additional profitsannually.On another front, when JPMorgan Chase andBank One merged, we set a target of more than$1 billion in revenue from investment bankingproducts sold to Commercial Banking clients(up from $552 million). This year, we exceededthe goal and are poised to continue growingthis business. Treasury & Securities Services reported netincome of $1.2 billion with an ROE of 25%Overall resultsTreasury & Securities Services (TSS) deliveredsolid but lower results, producing 2009 profitsof $1.2 billion vs. $1.8 billion in the prior year.The business delivered net revenue of $7.3billion, down 10% from the previous year. Wedescribe TSS as our “Warren Buffett-style”business because it grows with our clientsand with inflation; delivers excellent marginsand high returns on capital; and is hard forwould-be competitors to replicate because ofits global scale, long-term client relationshipsand complex technology.Our 2009 performance largely was drivenby weakened market conditions and lowerinterest rates. Securities lending and foreignexchange volumes and spreads, in particular,saw significant declines. TSS also sawdeposits level off after an exceptional periodin late 2008 and early 2009, when we werea huge beneficiary of the markets’ flightto quality. Despite the headwinds of 2009,the underlying business drivers remainedstrong: International electronic funds transfervolumes grew 13%, assets under custodyincreased 13% and the number of wholesalecards issued grew 19%.What we do in Treasury & Securities ServicesMore than 6,000 TSS bankers serve more than40,000 clients from all of our other lines ofbusiness in 60 locations around the world.TSS provides clients with critical products andservices, including global custody in more than90 global markets, holding nearly $15 trillionin assets; corporate cash management, movingan astounding $10 trillion a day of cash transactionsaround the world for clients; corporatecard services, providing 27 million cards tomore than 5,000 corporate clients and governmentagencies; and trade services, guaranteeinginternational payments for our clients,who are many of the world’s largest globalcompanies. Following are some specific examplesof how TSS supports a range of clients:• We delivered unemployment and otherbenefits to more than 12 million individualsin 2009, as the national leader in bringingelectronic banking services to low-incomehouseholds through electronic benefitstransfer and debit and stored-value cards.• We were selected by the Federal Reserveto serve as custodian for its program topurchase up to $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backedsecurities in order to provide supportto the mortgage and housing markets.• We are the leading cash managementprovider to the U.S. Postal Service,providing cash and check depositoryservices to nearly one-third of the U.S.Postal Service’s 80 districts.How we intend to growTSS essentially grows by following its clientsaround the world, which means openingnew branches and constantly improvingproducts. In 2009, TSS opened new branchesin China, Denmark, Finland, Norway andSweden; launched new services in Tokyo,South Korea, Brazil and Mexico; and expandedcapabilities in Australia, India, Europe, theMiddle East and Africa. We will continue thisexpansion for the foreseeable future.In addition, more than three years ago, TSSand the Investment Bank formed a jointventure to create our Global Corporate Bank.With a team of more than 100 corporatebankers, the Global Corporate Bank servesmultinational clients by giving them accessto TSS products and services and certainIB products, including derivatives, foreignexchange and debt. We intend to expand theGlobal Corporate Bank aggressively over thenext several years by opening 20-30 locationsand adding 150 corporate bankers, allowingus to cover approximately 1,000 new clients(3,100 total, up from 2,100). Asset Management reported net income of$1.4 billion with an ROE of 20%Overall resultsAsset Management, with assets under supervisionof $1.7 trillion, saw earnings increase by5% in a year that began with strong negativeheadwinds and finished with a market rally.Overall, the year’s results reflected severaltrends, including strong investment performance,continued growth in Private Banking,excellent investment performance from HighbridgeCapital Management and a breakoutyear for our U.S. retail mutual funds business.All of these trends reflected an improvingstory from the challenges of the past two years.What we do in Asset ManagementOur Asset Management franchise consistsof two primary businesses. The first is InvestmentManagement, in which 6,500 employeeshelp institutions and retail investors worldwidemanage their cash; provide equity, fixed incomeand alternative investment strategies; andadminister 401(k) services for large and mid-sizeU.S. employers. Overall, we manage more than$1.2 trillion in assets for our clients.Our second primary business is PrivateBanking. Our 1,900 private bankers help theworld’s wealthiest individuals and familiesgrow, manage and sustain their wealth withinvesting, portfolio structuring, capital advisory,philanthropy and banking services.Throughout 2009, our Asset Managementprofessionals advised institutions on how tostrengthen pension plans for the benefit oftheir employees; advised more than 1.6 million401(k) participants on achieving a secureretirement; executed comprehensive financialplans for family enterprises and businessowners; distributed more than $100 millionto charities on behalf of fiduciary clients; andbrought market insight and top-performingproducts to financial advisors who guidemillions of individual investors worldwide.Within Asset Management, our FixedIncome group solidified its position as the#1 provider of global liquidity (we manage$590 billion), and our U.S. Equity platformhad 82% of assets under management in thetop two quartiles of peer fund group investmentperformance over five years. Our U.S.retail business had an exceptional year despiteclients’ broadly based risk aversion, bringingin record net asset flows and ranking third innet new long-term flows in the industry – dueprincipally to the sale of strong-performingfixed income products.Private Banking experienced record revenuedue to inflows from clients and solid investing,lending and banking activity, as well as theaddition of nearly 100 client advisors and fivenew Private Wealth Management offices (inMiami, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattleand Washington, D.C.).In mid-2009, J.P. Morgan assumed 100%ownership of Highbridge Capital Management,one of the largest alternative asset managersin the United States, with $21 billion in clientassets. We acquired Highbridge in 2004 toaugment our alternative investment offeringsfor clients. Highbridge delivered the bestinvestment performance in its history in 2009,and just five years into our partnership, itsassets have grown threefold.Importantly, rigorous risk managementenabled Asset Management to provide valuablesupport to our clients and avoid manyof the negative developments that surfacedduring the financial crisis and damaged anuntold number of investors.How we intend to growOur Investment Management business isdeveloping new global strategies, includingfunds focused on maritime investments,commodities, distressed debt and China. Wealso plan to enhance Investment Management’sglobal distribution with the additionof more than 200 employees and increasedbudgets for marketing and client outreach. In 2010, we plan to expand Private Bankingglobally by adding more than 500 bankers,investors and client service employees. In addition,we intend to continue to invest in thegrowth of the brokerage business we acquiredfrom Bear Stearns. We anticipate a slowlyimproving but volatile investment environmentin 2010 – yet, nonetheless, we expectAsset Management to continue to thrive byhelping millions of individuals, families andinstitutions achieve their financial goals.The Corporate sector reported net incomeof $3.7 billionOur Corporate sector, excluding merger-relateditems, produced net income of $3.7billion compared with $768 million in theprior year. The Corporate sector comprisesthree segments: Private Equity, unallocatedcorporate expenses and our corporate investmentportfolio. Our Private Equity segmentreported a net loss of $78 million vs. a net lossof $690 million in 2008. Remember, however,in 2007, we had an outstanding year withpretax Private Equity gains of more than $4billion. We know that Private Equity returns,by their nature, are lumpy, but we expect toaverage 20% returns over the years.Our corporate investment portfolio, whichwe own in order to manage excess cash, ourcollateral needs and interest rate exposure,grew from a low of $91 billion in March 2008to an average of $324 billion in 2009. Ourinvestment portfolio produced exceptionalperformance, the result of both managinginterest rate exposures and buying securitiesthat we thought were extremely safe investmentsand were trading at large discounts tofair value (e.g., mortgage ABS, Triple-A creditcard ABS and Triple-A CLOs). The pretaxunrealized gain of this portfolio went from aloss of $3.4 billion at the beginning of 2009 toa gain of $3.3 billion at year-end. It’s importantto note that your company manages itsinterest rate exposure extremely carefully andbelieves that taking this exposure is fundamentallynot how we make our money. Anyinvestor can take on interest rate exposure –we do not consider that a business. We do notborrow “cheap” from the Federal Reserve orany other source; we borrow at market rates,like everyone else does.We may realize some of these Corporateinvestment gains in 2010, but we do not expectthese exceptional results to continue. Overthe course of the year, Corporate quarterlynet income (excluding Private Equity, merger-relateditems and any significant nonrecurringitems) is expected to decline to approximately$300 million. Nothing is more vital to the long-term growthof JPMorgan Chase than our ability to attractand retain talented and dedicated employees.Ours is a complicated business. Managing itrequires complex systems, extensive quantitativeskills and risk discipline. The pressurecan be enormous and wide-ranging – from atrader dealing with large positions to a callcenter employee helping a customer modifya mortgage loan that no longer is affordable.Being smart is not enough; it also takes a highlevel of social intelligence and skill to handleall types of customers facing all kinds ofchallenging circumstances.Success at our firm requires that employeestreat clients and customers respectfully andfairly and stay true to the values embedded inour culture: personal commitment, honesty,teamwork, diversity and community awareness.Ensuring we have the best people, training andleadership requires that we do many thingsright, from recruiting and training to recognizing,rewarding and developing leaders.This is what enables us to attract, retain anddevelop the best people.Recruiting and training talentThe breadth, complexity and variety in thework our people do are impressive by anymeasure but are not well-understood. We have220,000 employees around the world. Whilesome of us have high-profile jobs and receivegreat attention – not always for the betterthese days – many others are not in the publiceye. These individuals are essential to ourglobal operations and include:• Nineteen thousand programmers, applicationdevelopers and information technologyemployees who tirelessly keep our 80 datacenters, 55,000 servers, 225,000 desktopsand global network up and running – andwho were a major part of completing theBear Stearns and WaMu conversions inrecord time.• Eighty thousand employees fulfilling operationsfunctions globally and thousandsof customer service colleagues. In 2009,they responded to more than 245 millionphone calls – to help customers stay in theirhomes, understand credit card paymentplans and avoid financial problems duringthese difficult times.• Thirteen thousand people in Legal & Compliance,Risk, Audit, Human Resources andFinance in 60 countries who rigorouslyanalyze facts and figures, thoughtfullyreview the policies we have and address theissues we face. For example, we rely uponhundreds of credit risk officers to manageour various exposures, including $2 billion ofnew loans we make on average every day.• Thousands more of our colleagues workingbehind the scenes to keep our operations safeand efficient, including mailroom attendants,mechanics and engineers, executive assistants,receptionists, security personnel and thosewho manage our facilities worldwide.To fill these jobs, we hire thousands ofemployees each year, all of whom must betrained in our products, services and proceduresin order to do their jobs well. Annually,we hire 1,800 people with advanced degrees(including M.B.A.s and Ph.D.s). Thousands ofour people have advanced degrees in math,science and physics. While many of thesepeople work in the Investment Bank, otherswork in Asset Management, Credit and RiskAnalysis, Consumer Lending and Treasury &Securities Services, as well as in data centersacross the firm.Employees of JPMorgan Chase receive ongoingtraining and development to ensure they arewell-equipped to manage the complex systems,risk management disciplines and client relationshipsthat are critical to our franchise.Additionally, many are prepared to assumemanagerial and leadership roles over time.Our company has 94 management development programs and more than 20,000 trainingprograms (including online courses) thatenable our people to hone and expand theirskills in a rapidly changing business.Ongoing assessment and developmentAt JPMorgan Chase, we are fortunate to attractworld-class talent. We owe it to our employees,our customers and our shareholders to createan environment in which our people can dotheir best work. Toward this end, we believein assessing their strengths and weaknessesand regularly giving them honest and thoroughfeedback. Additionally, we know thatin order to sustain our strong competitiveposition, we must focus on developing exceptionalleaders. This starts with a clear andshared understanding about the attributes wevalue most in senior managers. These qualitiesmust be intentionally fostered and reinforcedthrough a rigorous talent assessment process.This process now is embedded as part of howwe operate. We also are developing a generalmanagement program for M.B.A. students tohelp us add to our bench and build generalmanagement talent on an ongoing basis.Encouraging mobility and multiple careersTalent mobility and optimization are key to ourlong-term success. We have to clearly outlinewhat people need to do to move to the nextlevel at JPMorgan Chase. We are working todo away with statements such as, “My bosswon’t let me go … or my boss won’t let melook at positions in other divisions.” Peoplehave the right to explore different careeropportunities and follow their dreams. Whileit’s also an individual’s responsibility tomanage his or her own career, it’s our job tohelp facilitate that. We strive to be proactiveand thoughtful in that regard.Intense focus on successionWe need to be honest and thoughtful aboutpotential successors, particularly for seniorjobs. We have redoubled our efforts toensure that we have people in the pipelinewho are capable of assuming senior levels ofresponsibility three, five or even seven yearsout or right away if necessary (the “hit by atruck” emergency scenario). This is true formy job as well.Poor CEO succession has destroyed many acompany. CEO and management successionoften seems more like a psychological dramaor a Shakespearean tragedy than the reasonedand mature process it should be. It is in ourbest interest to avoid such drama.I want to assure you, our shareholders, thatyour Board believes that we have within theorganization some outstanding people whocould do my job today; and we will continue torotate some of our senior people across the businessto ensure that others are fully developed totake my job in the future. The Board of Directorsnot only believes that this is a priority butthat it is of the utmost importance. And you canrest assured that your Board members are onthe case. They personally know all of the OperatingCommittee members of the company (andmany others), and the Board members periodicallyreview – with and without me – yourcompany’s key succession plans.Getting compensation rightCompensation is one of the most complexissues we confront – it is important to ouremployees, our company, our shareholdersand, increasingly, the public at large. A poorlyconceived compensation strategy can devastatea company by attracting the wrong peopleand incenting them to do the wrong thingsfor the wrong reasons. At JPMorgan Chase,we put a great deal of time and thought intodesigning compensation plans that attractand motivate good people and reward goodbehavior. Of course, compensation aside, wealways expect our people to do the right thing.A badly designed compensation plan never isan excuse for bad behavior.Many people are concerned and angry aboutcompensation practices across the financialservices industry – and many of theseconcerns are quite legitimate. Senior leadersat some companies made a great deal of money while their companies failed and, inthe process, helped contribute to the crisis inour country. This angers me, too. But not allcompanies were reckless – and not all companieshad bad compensation practices.In this section, I’m going to describe how ouroverall 2009 compensation related to otherindustries, present some overall principlesthat guide us and explain how we apply theseprinciples in compensating our people.Comparing JPMorgan Chase with otherindustriesIn 2009, JPMorgan Chase’s total expenses were$52 billion. The total compensation (salariesand benefits and incentives) your companypaid out was $27 billion.As seen above, we paid salaries and benefitsof approximately $74,000 per person andincentive compensation on average of $46,000per person for a total of $120,000 per person.These salary and benefit numbers are generallyin line with other major companies –financial and non-financial.The incentive awards come in various forms(cash, commissions, restricted stock, options,etc.). Approximately 32% of the incentivecompensation for 2009 was in restricted stockand options that vest over a number of years.At JPMorgan Chase, the use of stock optionsis very restricted – we only use stock optionsfor approximately 500 people a year – andrepresents just 1%-2% of the company’s totalcompensation expense.Many commentators, in an attempt to measurefairness and reasonableness of a company’scompensation payouts, have looked at totalcompensation as a percentage of revenue. Onthis basis, JPMorgan Chase’s total compensation(salaries, benefits and bonuses) was 27%for 2009; this number averaged 33% overthe previous several years. For our InvestmentBank alone – the part of the companyreceiving the most scrutiny – compensationwas 33% of revenue, down from an averageof 44% over the last five years.The chart on the next page compares thesesame percentages with a wide mix of businesses.For the average U.S. business, totalcompensation as a percentage of revenue isapproximately 16%. In general, at businessesthat are people-intensive and not capital- orintellectual property-intensive, such as professionalservices companies, a high percentageof the company’s revenue is paid out to theemployees. Law firms, for example (whichare not included in the following table), payout more than 80% of their revenue to theiremployees. In highly capital-intensive companies,like telecommunications or certainmanufacturing companies, payout ratios areconsiderably lower.Some commentators also have looked at totalcompensation as a percent of profits. Here yousee a similarly wide range of results.Essentially, the financial dynamics and structuresof various businesses are very different,and looking at these ratios always will producedivergent conclusions – they alone do notreveal very much.It also is important to point out that at manycompanies, a significant amount of incentivecompensation generally is paid regardlessof whether or not the overall company doeswell. Many companies pay certain individualsbased on their specific performance (sales andservice employees) and not necessarily on theperformance of the company.JPMorgan Chase does employ a number ofhighly compensated individuals, probablymore than in many other industries – but not all. We are unable to find real comparisons.Much of the anger about highly compensatedindividuals at banks relates to the argumentthat all of these companies would have failed,which we do not believe is true (more detailon this in the next section). Finally, the morehighly paid the individual is at JPMorganChase, the higher the percentage of compensationawarded in restricted stock and options.Before we speak specifically about how wecompensate individuals at JPMorgan Chase,it’s appropriate to outline our principles.Some key compensation principles atJPMorgan ChaseWe believe the compensation principles weuse are best practices and compare favorablywith those outlined by outside authorities,such as the G-20, the Financial ServicesAuthority, the Financial Stability Board, theFederal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury. Ourprinciples are as follows:• Pay a significant percentage of our incentivecompensation in stock: at least 67% for theOperating Committee members and approximately50% for the remainder of our seniormanagement team.• Structure the stock we grant – restricted stockunits or options – to vest over multiple years.• Require Operating Committee members toretain and hold approximately 75% of thestock they receive from the company afterthe stock vests.• Generally do not provide multi-year guaranteesto new hires and almost never tocurrent employees.• Institute meaningful recoupment policies,some of which we enhanced in 2008 and2009 and are progressively more stringentat higher levels of management. Forall employees, if anyone causes materialfinancial or reputational harm to the firmor its business activities, we can recoup theemployee’s incentives, including stock.• For approximately 500 senior individuals,unvested stock also can be recouped forfailure to properly identify, raise or assess, ina timely manner and as reasonably expected,material risks to the firm.• For the Operating Committee and for me,unvested stock or options can be recoupednot only for the reasons mentioned above butalso if reasonable progress toward personaland company goals is not met. This is at thediscretion of the Board of Directors. Pay our people for performing well overmultiple years and for helping to buildenduring performance.• Ensure that financial results – a key metric(but not the only one) we use to pay ourpeople – always include profits adjustedfor risk; that is, the more capital a businessuses, the more it is assessed a charge forthat capital.• Recognize revenue for complex and long datedtrades or products over multiple yearsto properly reflect the risk. Try to be asconservative as possible regarding accounting– aiming not to recognize profits at all whenwe think doing so is inappropriate.Some of our other compensation principles gobeyond what regulators have asked for but, webelieve, are equally important. For example:• We do not have change-of-control agreements,special executive retirement plans orgolden parachutes, or special severance packagesfor senior executives.• We do not pay bonuses for completinga merger, which we regard as part of thejob. When the merger has proved to besuccessful, compensation might go up.• We feel strongly that financial outcomesalone do not represent a comprehensivepicture of performance. Broader contributions– such as continually honing leadershipskills; maintaining integrity and compliance;recruiting and training a diverse, outstandingworkforce; building better systems; andfostering innovation, to name just someimportant qualities – matter a great deal. Infact, in our business, basing compensationsolely on financial or quantitative measures,and ignoring qualitative measures, can bedisastrous. Good performance in a particularyear does not necessarily indicate that theindividual did a good job.• We are mindful that a rising tide lifts allboats so we take into account how much astrong market, as opposed to the initiativeof the individual or group, contributed tothe results.• We must be highly competitive on compensation,which is absolutely crucial to beinga great company. While we aim to be acompany that pays its employees well, itshould be because we have been a well-performingcompany.• We want our employees to be shareholders.All of the policies described above havebeen effective in this regard: Our employeesown 488 million shares and options, asignificant portion of which is unvested –i.e., of no value to the individual if he or shewere to leave the company for a competitor.Ownership does not guarantee thatour employees will act like owners, but itcertainly improves the odds.How we pay individualsOur starting point when it comes to compensationis, as it should be, risk-adjusted financialperformance. We keep thousands of profit-and-lossstatements (by branch, by trading desk, etc.).While we don’t maintain incentive compensationpools at such a granular level, we do havehundreds of such pools; we try to maintain avery disciplined approach to relate compensationas closely as possible to performance.However, we do not stop there. We makeadjustments based on our own judgmentsabout how the company is doing (in absoluteand in competitive terms) and for very specificbusiness decisions, such as additions to staffor large, new investments that affect profits. Insome cases, the impact of these sorts of discretionaryfactors will be negligible. In othercases, the discretion we exercise may have asignificant effect on the size of an incentivecompensation pool. If we feel the pool amountwas not earned, we do not pay it. Some individuals are paid incentive compensationbased on very specific metrics; forexample, people in our call centers, retailbranches and operating centers. These metricsmay be increased or reduced somewhat bythe company’s performance. There also area few senior people who are paid on specificmetrics. For example, bankers who managemoney for our clients have their compensationtightly tied to the kind of job they did fortheir clients. I think you would agree that thisis completely appropriate.Most of our senior people are not paid byformula – we use multiple metrics to assessperformance and then apply a great deal ofjudgment. In general, the more senior theexecutive, the more the compensation shouldrelate to the company’s performance overall.This is especially true for the leadership teamof each business.When it comes to an individual, we look at hisor her performance, the unit results and theoverall performance of the company. Sincewe generally know these individuals well, weevaluate their performance over a multi-yearperiod. It is important that we recognize ourbest people – many of those in senior positionshave generally proved themselves overmany, many years.We also are keenly aware of our competitionand know what it would take to replacea person if we had to hire someone new. Wecannot operate in a vacuum.Our most senior people – members of ourOperating Committee – have their compensationtightly tied to the company’s performance,and they also are evaluated on their leadershipskills. In 2008, when the company’s earningswere down 64%, your senior management’scompensation was down 67% (this doesn’tinclude me; I received no year-end incentive).We know there are people in this industrywho have been extraordinarily well-paid – and,in some cases, overpaid. Some of these peoplehave benefited from profits that turned outto be ephemeral or were the result of excessiveleverage in the system. Some benefitedfrom extreme competition for their specifictalents, often from hedge funds and othersuch businesses. While no firm can claim itgets compensation right every time, we atJPMorgan Chase do think we have generallybeen disciplined when it comes to our decisions.We believe we have the right compensationpractices, but that is only one part ofbuilding a great company. The most importantpart is developing great leaders.Developing leadersEarlier in this section, I mentioned that mynumber one priority is to put a healthy andproductive succession process in place. As Iwill be increasingly focused on this process,I would like to share my thoughts about theessential qualities a leader must have, particularlyas they relate to a large multinationalcorporation like JPMorgan Chase.Leadership is an honor, a privilege and a deepobligation. When leaders make mistakes, a lotof people can get hurt. Being true to oneselfand avoiding self-deception are as importantto a leader as having people to turn to forthoughtful, unbiased advice. I believe socialintelligence and “emotional quotient,” orEQ, matter in management. EQ can includeempathy, clarity of thought, compassion andstrength of character.Good people want to work for good leaders.Bad leaders can drive out almost anyone who’sgood because they are corrosive to an organization;and since many are manipulative anddeceptive, it often is a challenge to find themand root them out.At many of the best companies throughouthistory, the constant creation of good leadersis what has enabled the organizations to standthe true test of greatness – the test of time.Below are some essential hallmarks of a goodleader. While we cannot be great at all of thesetraits – I know I’m not – to be successful, aleader needs to get most of them right. DisciplineThis means holding regular business reviews,talent reviews and team meetings andconstantly striving for improvement – fromhaving a strong work ethic to making lists anddoing real, detailed follow-up. Leadership islike exercise; the effect has to be sustained forit to do any good.FortitudeThis attribute often is missing in leaders: Theyneed to have a fierce resolve to act. It meansdriving change, fighting bureaucracy and politics,and taking ownership and responsibility.High standardsAbraham Lincoln said, “Things may cometo those who wait … but only the things leftby those who hustle.” Leaders must set highstandards of performance all the time, at adetailed level and with a real sense of urgency.Leaders must compare themselves with thebest. Huge institutions have a tendency towardslowing things down, which demands thatleaders push forward constantly. True leadersmust set the highest standards of integrity– those standards are not embedded in thebusiness but require conscious choices. Suchstandards demand that we treat customersand employees the way we would want to betreated ourselves or the way we would wantour own mother to be treated.Ability to face factsIn a cold-blooded, honest way, leaders emphasizethe negatives at management meetingsand focus on what can be improved (of course,it’s okay to celebrate the successes, too). Allreporting must be accurate, and all relevantfacts must be reported, with full disclosure andon one set of books.OpennessSharing information all the time is vital –we should debate the issues and alternativeapproaches, not the facts. The best leaders killbureaucracy – it can cripple an organization– and watch for signs of politics, like sidebarmeetings after the real meeting because peoplewouldn’t speak their mind at the right time.Equally important, leaders get out in the fieldregularly so as not to lose touch. Anyone in ameeting should feel free to speak his or hermind without fear of offending anyone else.I once heard someone describe the importanceof having “at least one truth-teller at the table.”Well, if there is just one truth-teller at thetable, you’re in trouble – everyone should bea truth-teller.Setup for successAn effective leader makes sure all the rightpeople are in the room – from Legal, Systemsand Operations to Human Resources, Financeand Risk. It’s also necessary to set up the rightstructure. When tri-heads report to co-heads,all decisions become political – a setup forfailure, not success.Morale-buildingHigh morale is developed through fixingproblems, dealing directly and honestly withissues, earning respect and winning. It doesnot come from overpaying people or deliveringsweet talk, which permits the avoidanceof hard decision making and fosters passive aggressivebehaviors.Loyalty, meritocracy and teamworkWhile I deeply believe in loyalty, it often ismisused. Loyalty should be to the principlesfor which someone stands and to the institution:Loyalty to an individual frequently isanother form of cronyism. Leaders demand alot from their employees and should be loyalto them – but loyalty and mutual respect aretwo-way streets. Loyalty to employees does notmean that a manager owes them a particularjob. Loyalty to employees means building ahealthy, vibrant company; telling them thetruth; and giving them meaningful work,training and opportunities. If employees falldown, we should get them the help they need.Meritocracy and teamwork also are critical butfrequently misunderstood. Meritocracy meansputting the best person in the job, whichpromotes a sense of justice in the organizationrather than the appearance of cynicism: “Herethey go again, taking care of their friends.”Finally, while teamwork is important and oftencode for “getting along,” equally important isan individual’s ability to have the courage tostand alone and do the right thing.Fair treatmentThe best leaders treat all people properly andrespectfully, from clerks to CEO s. Everyoneneeds to help everyone else at the companybecause everyone’s collective purpose is to serveclients. When strong leaders consider promotingpeople, they pick those who are respected andask themselves, Would I want to work for him?Would I want my kid to report to her?HumilityLeaders need to acknowledge those who camebefore them and helped shape the enterprise– it’s not all their own doing. There’s a lot ofluck involved in anyone’s success, and a littlehumility is important. The overall goal mustbe to help build a great company – then wecan do more for our employees, our customersand our communities.The grey area of leadershipThere are many aspects of the leadershipprocess that are open for interpretation. Thisgrey area contributes to the complexity of thechallenges that leaders – and those who governthem – face. I would like to share with you whereI stand with regard to a few of these issues.Successful leaders are hard to findThere are examples of individuals who havebeen thrust, wholly unprepared, into positionsof leadership and actually perform well– I think of President Harry Truman, amongothers. I would submit, however, that relyingon luck is a risky proposition. History showsthat bad or inexperienced leaders can producedisastrous results. While there are possiblyinnate and genetic parts of leadership (perhapsbroad intelligence and natural energy), otherparts are deeply embedded in the internalvalues of an individual; for example, workethic, integrity, knowledge and good judgment.Many leaders have worked their entire lives toget where they are, and while perhaps someachieved their stature through accident orpolitics, that is not true for most. Anyone on asports team, in government or in virtually anyother endeavor knows when he or she encountersthe rare combination of emotional skill,integrity and knowledge that makes a leader.Successful leaders are working to build somethingMost leaders I know are working to buildsomething of which they can be proud. Theyusually work hard, not because they mustbut because they want to do so; they set highstandards because as long as leaders are goingto do something, they are going to do the bestthey can. They believe in things larger thanthemselves, and the highest obligation is tothe team or the organization. Leaders demandloyalty, not to themselves but to the cause forwhich they stand.Nonetheless, compensation does matterWhile I agree that money should not be theprimary motivation for leaders, it is notrealistic to say that compensation should notcount at any level. People have responsibilitiesto themselves and to their families. Theyalso have a deep sense of “compensationjustice,” which means they often are upsetwhen they feel they are not fairly compensatedagainst peers both within and outsidethe company. There are markets for talent,just like products, and a company must pay areasonable price to compete.Big business needs entrepreneurs, tooThe popular perception is that entrepreneurs– those who believe in free enterprise – existonly in small companies and that entrepreneursin small companies should be free topursue happiness or monetary gain as appropriate.Free enterprise, entrepreneurship andthe pursuit of happiness also exist in mostlarge enterprises. And you, our shareholders,should insist on it. Without the capacity toinnovate, respond to new and rapidly changingmarkets, and anticipate enormous challenges,large companies would cease to exist. Thepeople who achieve these objectives want tobe compensated fairly, just as they would be ifthey had built a successful start-up. Performance isn’t always easy to judgeManagers responsible for businesses mustnecessarily evaluate individuals along a spectrumof factors. Did these individuals act withintegrity? Did they hire and train good people?Did they build the systems and products thatwill strengthen the company, not just in thecurrent year but in future years? Did theydevelop real management teams? In essence,are they building something with sustainable,long-term value? Making these determinationsrequires courage and judgment.Sometimes leaders should be supported and paideven when a unit does poorlyIf a company’s largest, and perhaps mostimportant, business unit is under enormousstress and strain, unlikely to earn moneyregardless of who is running it, a managermight ask his best leader to take on the job.This may be the toughest job in the company,one that will take years to work through beforethe ship has been righted. When the managerasks a leader to take on the responsibility,she quite appropriately will want to knowwhether she will be supported in the toughestof times: “Will you make sure the organizationdoesn’t desert me?” “Will you stop the politicsof people using my unit’s poor performanceagainst me?” “Will you compensate me fairly?”My answer to all of these questions would beyes. And as long as I thought she were doingthe job well, I would want to pay her like ourbest leaders, profits aside. Conversely, we allknow that a rising tide lifts all boats. Whenthat’s the case, paying that leader too much ispossibly the worst thing one can do – becauseit teaches people the wrong lesson.Evaluating the CEOThe CEO should be held strictly accountableby the Board of Directors. The Board shouldcontinually review the CEO’s performanceand give feedback (and coaching). The Boardalone should determine the compensation forthe CEO. At every regularly scheduled Boardmeeting at JPMorgan Chase, the directors alsohave a private meeting without me. Compensationcommittees and the Board need to beindependent thinkers – and yours are. Theyreview lots of data to evaluate the performanceof the company, including reviewing competitors’performance and their compensationpractices. Our Board members do not rely oncompensation consultants to make decisionsfor them. The Board members believe thatdetermining how to compensate the CEO (andall of our senior management) is their responsibilityand cannot be outsourced.In two of the last 10 years, I received no bonus,which I thought was absolutely appropriate. In2000, Bank One was in terrible shape – we hadto lay off approximately 10,000 people, and Ithought it completely inappropriate that I takea bonus. That year, my first at Bank One, I hada guarantee – I gave it up. The second timewas in 2008, and our financial results were justtoo mediocre to contemplate a bonus for theCEO. Since we did pay many other people inthose two years, we also lived by the principlethat the CEO does not have to be the highestpaid person in the company.In all the years I’ve worked at this company,much of my compensation (approximately65%) has been in stock. I’ve never sold a shareand do not intend to do so as long as I’m in thisjob. In fact, when I joined Bank One, I boughta lot of stock outright, not because I thought itwas cheap (in fact, I thought it was overvalued)but because I wanted to be tethered tightly tothe company and its performance. We need rational policies based on facts andanalysisThe recent financial crisis has caused greatdistress across the country and around theworld, but it also has provided us with a pathfor going forward. The era of bailouts mustend, and the oversight of system-wide riskmust increase, among other changes. DavidHume said, “Reason is … slave of the passions…” But if we rewrite the rules for banks outof anger or populism, we’ll end up with thewrong solutions and put barriers in the wayof future economic growth. Good policy andfinancial reform must be based on facts andanalysis and need to be comprehensive, coordinated,consistent and relevant.As New York Times columnist Thomas L.Friedman noted earlier this year, “We need anew banking regulatory regime that reducesrecklessness without reducing risk-taking,which is the key to capitalism.” In strikingthis regulatory balance, the details matter. Weshould focus on building good regulation – notsimply more or less of it. The last thing weneed is to enact new policies that over-regulateand work at cross-purposes without reducingsystem-wide risk. None of us can afford thecosts of unnecessary or bad regulation.While we acknowledge that making gooddecisions takes time, we think it is importantto complete financial reform this year. Thelack of regulatory clarity is creating problemsfor banks and for the entire economy. Businessesneed confidence and certainty to grow(and to create jobs). Passing sensible financialreforms will provide some of the certaintythe business sector needs. With this in mind,I would like to discuss the critical lessonslearned and how they are central to gettingregulatory reform right.The crisis had many causesIn my 2008 letter to shareholders, I discussedthe fundamental causes and contributors tothe financial crisis. I won’t repeat them indetail here, but, broadly speaking, they wereas follows:• The burst of a major housing bubble, causedby bad mortgage underwriting, a somewhatunregulated mortgage business and somemisguided government policies.• Excessive, pervasive leverage across thesystem, including banks, investment banks,hedge funds, consumers and the shadowbanking system.• The dramatic growth of structural risks andthe unanticipated damage they caused (theflaws of money market funds and the reposystem). Remember, we had a “run” on thecapital markets.• Regulatory lapses and mistakes: Basel capitalrules that required too little capital anddidn’t account for liquidity and relied toomuch on rating agencies; the Securities andExchange Commission allowing U.S. investmentbanks to get too leveraged; and poorregulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,among many elements of an archaic, siloedregulatory system. However, we should notand do not blame regulators for the failuresof individual companies, ever – managementis solely to blame.• The pro-cyclical nature of virtually allpolicies, actions and events (e.g., loan lossreserving, capital requirements and themarket itself).• The impact of huge trade and financingimbalances on interest rates, consumptionand speculation levels. The heart of the problem – across all sectors– was bad risk management. Many marketparticipants improperly used value-at-risk(VaR) measurements; they did not run stresstests to be prepared for the possibility of ahighly stressed environment; they excessivelyrelied on rating agencies; they stretched toomuch for current earnings; and they didn’treact quickly when markets got bad.At JPMorgan Chase, we never overly relied onVaR, and we regularly ran stress tests to makesure we were prepared for bad environments.Our goal was and is to remain profitableevery quarter.While it is tempting to identify a scapegoat– banks, businesses, the government orconsumers – it is pretty obvious that no onewas solely to blame and that no one should becompletely absolved from blame.Yes, we made mistakes …… and we have identified and described themin great detail in prior years’ chairman’s letters.Our two largest mistakes were making toomany leveraged loans and lowering our mortgageunderwriting standards. While our mortgageunderwriting was considerably betterthan many others’, we did underwrite somehigh loan-to-value mortgages based on stated,not verified, income. We accept completeresponsibility for any and all mistakes wemade or may have made.There also are many mistakes that we did notmake, among them: structured investmentvehicles (SIVs), extreme leverage, excessivereliance on short-term funding, collateralizeddebt obligations and improper management ofour derivatives book.Some of the mistakes we made may havecontributed to the crisis. For those, of course,we are sorry – to both the public and ourshareholders. However, it would be a hugestretch to say that these mistakes caused thecrisis. In fact, at the height of the crisis, weaggressively took actions that we believedhelped mitigate some of the fallout from thecrisis and contributed to the stabilization andrecovery (e.g., our purchase of Bear Stearnsand WaMu and our interbank lending; that is,loans that banks make directly to each other).Yes, we should thank the government for itsextraordinary actionsAs noted in last year’s letter, we think thegovernment acted boldly and urgently indealing with a complex and rapidly changingsituation. Without many of these actions, webelieve the outcome could have been muchworse. A great number of the actions that theTreasury and the Federal Reserve took, directlyand indirectly, benefited a number of institutionsand may have saved many from failureand bankruptcy.Without these actions, however, not all bankswould have failedThe premise that all banks would have failedhad it not been for the government’s actionsis incorrect. This premise is behind much ofthe anger toward banks and some of the policyrecommendations that are meant to punishbanks. We should acknowledge that the worstoffenders among financial companies nolonger are in existence. And while it is truethat some of the surviving banks would not, ormight not, have survived, not all banks wouldhave failed. I know I speak for a number ofbanks when I say that some of us acceptedthe Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP)capital not because we needed it to survive butbecause we believed we were doing the rightthing to help the country and the economy.We were told the government wanted eventhe healthy banks to take TARP to set anexample for all banks and to make it easier forthe weaker institutions to accept the capitalwithout being stigmatized. JPMorgan Chaseand many other banks were in a position to tryto help, and that is what we did. At the worst point in the crisis, weaggressively provided creditThroughout the financial crisis, JPMorganChase never posted a quarterly loss. We servedas a safe haven for depositors, worked closelywith the federal government and remained anactive lender.Our fortress balance sheet enabled us to buyBear Stearns in March 2008, adding $289billion in assets; then we acquired WashingtonMutual just six months later, adding a further$264 billion of assets. Through it all, JPMorganChase absorbed the stress of higher consumerand wholesale credit losses while maintaininghigh liquidity and acceptable growth in ourcapital. We acquired Washington Mutual just10 days after Lehman Brothers’ collapse onSeptember 15, 2008, and, in order to maintainour fortress balance sheet, immediately sold$11.5 billion in common stock the followingmorning. The takeover of Bear Stearns andWaMu provided essential credit and supportto the system and minimized a potentiallydisastrous disruption that could have resultedfrom their failures. In the several monthsafter Lehman’s failure, our interbank lendinggrew from almost nothing to as high as $70billion, and our average lending was approximately$100 billion per month, even higherthan it had been in the prior months. We alsopurchased, at one point, a net $250 billion ofsecurities, which helped facilitate much-neededliquidity in the marketplace.We consistently maintained extremelyhigh capital levelsAs the chart below shows, we ended 2008 withTier 1 Common Capital of 7.0% (the criticalmeasure used by the Federal Reserve for itsbank stress tests), and we ended 2009 withTier 1 Common Capital of 8.8%.In May 2009, the U.S. government ran a stresstest on 19 banks. The test assumed an adverseenvironment of 10.4% unemployment and a48% peak-to-trough decline in the housing priceindex across a two-year time span. Upon completionof the test, the results required 10 banksto raise common equity to maintain 4% Tier 1Common Capital through the end of the stressscenarios. Under the government’s test, JPMorganChase always had common equity of $40 billionin excess of the 4% minimum (for the record,the $25 billion of TARP capital we accepted waspreferred stock and, therefore, never was partof this calculation). The bottom line is that wepassed the stress test with flying colorsWe kept our liquidity extremely highAs we entered the most tumultuous financialmarkets since the Great Depression, we experiencedthe opposite of a “run on the bank”as deposits flowed in (in a two-month period,$150 billion flowed in – we barely knew whatto do with it). At JPMorgan Chase, our depositsalways exceeded our loans; deposits alwayshave been considered one of the safest sourcesof funding for a bank. The average bank hasloans that are generally greater than 110% ofits deposits. For JPMorgan Chase, loans wereapproximately 75% of deposits. In fact, ourexcess deposits greatly reduced the need tofinance ourselves in riskier wholesale markets.In the long-term wholesale unsecured markets,we borrowed on average $270 billion. Only $40billion was borrowed unsecured in the short-termcredit markets – an extraordinarily lowamount for a company of our size. When weborrow in the secured markets, we do so underthe assumption that we would have access tosome, not all, of that funding in a crisis.We always maintained excess liquidity at thebank holding company. We had and continue tohave enough cash or cash equivalents on handto fund ourselves for more than two years, evenin the event that we are unable to borrow fromthe unsecured credit markets at all.We were prepared for things to get even worseWhile the economic environment had becomeas bad as any of us had ever seen, we reluctantlyprepared for the situation to get worse,with a possible U.S. unemployment rate of15% or higher. Such an adverse environmentwould have required drastic actions: a largeheadcount reduction, elimination of marketingand other investments, and a decrease inlending to preserve capital. Steps like thesewould have saved more than $12 billion inexpenses and created considerable additionalcapital. However, it also would have imposeddeep hardship on many of our employees,suppliers and customers. Fortunately, we neverhad to execute such a drastic plan. This wasprecisely what the government was trying toavoid, and I believe its actions helped preventmany companies from taking steps like thosementioned above.Government programs were a mixed blessingWhile we deeply appreciate the government’sactions – and they clearly had benefits for thesystem and for JPMorgan Chase – they alsowere a mixed blessing.In June 2009, we paid back the TARP capitalin full. The $25 billion we borrowed for eightmonths cost us money, because we never wereable to lend the $25 billion and earn a ratehigher than the 5% coupon we were paying onthe preferred shares. In addition, we gave thegovernment warrants worth almost $1 billion –a direct cost to our shareholders.We did participate in the Federal DepositInsurance Corporation (FDIC) guaranteeprogram, under which we issued $40 billion ofdebt with an FDIC guarantee. Many banks thatused this program would not have had accessto the capital markets without this guaranteeand possibly could have failed. For JPMorganChase, it was not a question of access or need –to the extent we needed it, the markets alwayswere open to us – but the program did save usmoney. As part of this program, we have paidthe FDIC $1.3 billion, and, after paying theFDIC, it will save us a significant amount ofmoney over the next few years.Our company was highly criticized foraccepting the TARP capital and for usingthe FDIC program. After April 1, 2009, eventhough we were eligible to continue using theFDIC program, we stopped using it. Therewere many other government programs (withacronyms such as TALF and PPIP) that webelieve were beneficial to the capital markets,but that we did not need and chose not to use,so as to avoid the stigma. (We did use the TermAuction Facility (TAF), a special governmentsponsoreddepository facility, but this wasdone at the request of the Federal Reserve tohelp motivate others to use the system.)While no one knows what would havehappened in the absence of all these governmentprograms, there is a strong argumentthat those that entered the crisis in a positionof strength may have gathered huge benefitsat the expense of failing competitors – but it ishard to argue that this would have been goodfor the country.We did not anticipate the anger or backlashthe acceptance of TARP capital would evokefrom the public, politicians and the media –but, even with hindsight, I think we wouldhave had to accept TARP capital because doingso was in the best interest of the country. I dowish it would have been possible to distinguishbetween the healthy and unhealthy banks ina way that didn’t damage the success of theprogram – so as not to create a situation wherethe public was left with the impression that allbanks were bailed out. Last, I do regret havingused the FDIC guarantee because we didn’tneed it, and it just added to the argument thatall banks had been bailed out and fueled theanger directed toward banks.The government runs the FDIC, but the bankspay for itWhile the FDIC is a government institutionthat insures bank deposits, our shareholdersshould know that the costs associated withfailed banks are borne in full by the banks,not by taxpayers. We think this is completelyappropriate. Even if the FDIC’s special TemporaryLiquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP)had lost money, those losses would have beencharged back to the surviving banks. Therefore,it is these surviving banks that have paidfor the cost to the FDIC of the approximately200 bank failures since the beginning of 2008.Of those failures, the largest one, WaMu (withassets exceeding $260 billion), has cost theFDIC nothing. That is because JPMorgan Chasebought WaMu. All of the other banks that havefailed were far smaller (the next largest failurewas IndyMac, with $32 billion). All of thesefailures combined have cost the FDIC an estimated$55 billion.Between deposit insurance and TLGP fundingfor 2008 and 2009, plus estimates for ourshare of assessments over the next three years,JPMorgan Chase alone will have given theFDIC a total of approximately $6 billion tocover the cost of failed banks. Banks are lending — a little less but moreresponsiblyA great deal of media attention recently hasfocused on what it will take to get bankslending again. The reality is that banksnever have stopped lending: As of the endof February 2010, according to the latest datafrom the regulatory reports, total loans heldby commercial banks stood at $6.5 trillion –higher than at the end of June 2007 and morethan 30% higher than in 2004.How is it that businesses and consumersclearly feel they have less access to bank creditwhile the banks claim they are still lending?This disconnect can be explained as follows:1. T he flow of non-bank lending, which hasaccounted for 65% of the credit suppliedin the United States, dried up. Many nonbanklenders (think of the shadow bankingsystem, SIVs, the asset-backed commercialpaper market and the securitizationmarkets) virtually collapsed. These sourcesof credit alone – and they were funded byinsurance companies, pension plans, andcorporate and foreign investors – reducedthe credit they were providing to the systemby nearly half a trillion dollars.2. Bank lending did go up in the monthsimmediately after Lehman’s collapse, butduring the course of 2009, bank lendingstarted to decline in total. While more than100 banks, including JPMorgan Chase,stepped up and acquired failing banks,they could not and did not fully replace theextension of credit the failing banks hadbeen providing. For example, at JPMorganChase, we did not continue the subprimelending and option-ARM mortgages thatWaMu had been providing.3. M any banks also tightened their loan standards,which further reduced new loans.4. Additionally, customer demand for loansdecreased across large and small businesses.In fact, at JPMorgan Chase alone, loans tolarge companies dropped (from $85 billionto $50 billion). This was not due to ourreluctance to make the loans but ratherto large companies taking advantage ofthe ability to finance at lower rates in thereopened capital markets.Banks have a responsibility to make soundloans. Bad loans are one of the things thatgot us into this mess in the first place. And,unfortunately, making good loans oftenmeans declining applications for loans thatdo not meet safe and sound lending criteria.While it may not seem obvious at the time,turning down an application that fails tomeet these criteria actually may be in bothour and our client’s best interest. We have aresponsibility to lend only to those who canhandle the debt. Unlike many other businesses,this puts us in the unpopular positionof saying no to some of our customers.Banks are not fighting regulationWe at JPMorgan Chase and at other banks haveconsistently acknowledged the need for properregulatory reform, and I also spoke about thistopic in great detail in last year’s letter.Looking back, one of the surprising aspectsabout the recent crisis is that most of thespecific problems associated with it (globaltrade imbalances, the housing bubble, excessiveleverage, money market funds, etc.) wereindividually well-known and discussed. Butno one, as far as I know, put together all of thefactors and predicted the toxic combination itwould become – and the crisis it would cause.So what can we do to help fix the situationgoing forward? We must focus on theproblem: bad risk management. This not onlycaused financial institutions to fail, but it alsorevealed fundamental flaws in the systemitself. These flaws existed at both a macro level,where the interplay of the numerous criticalfactors was missed, and a micro level: forexample, the failure to prevent AIG from takingexcessive, one-sided positions in trading derivativesand the failure to limit mortgages to familieswho could afford them and to keep loan-to-valueratios to a more reasonable 80%-90%.Over the last 50 years, we have allowed ourregulatory system to become dangerouslyoutdated. The structure is archaic and leaveshuge gaps in the system. Today, in America,banks account for only one-third of the creditoutstanding, with all kinds of non-banks takingand trading risks and providing credit to thesystem. So the idea that banking is confinedto deposit-holding entities is inaccurate anddeceptive. The failure of so many firms ina range of sizes and categories – from BearStearns and Lehman Brothers to IndyMac andWaMu to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and AIG,as well as local community banks – proves thatregulation needs to be administered by productand economic substance, not by legal entity. Wehave a chance to simplify and strengthen ourregulatory system, and, if we do it right, it willnot only be able to handle the complex challengeswe face today but will be able to do so ina way that will be flexible enough to continuouslyadapt to our changing world.We support a systemic regulatorGoing forward, we will need a systemic regulatorcharged with effectively monitoring thespread and level of risk across the financialsystem in its entirety. Think of it as a “superrisk” regulator. Such a regulator would not eliminateall future problems, but it would be able tomitigate them. If we had eliminated just someof the problems, it might have stopped the crisisfrom getting this bad. Congress appears to bewell on its way to creating just such a regulator,and we hope it succeeds.Some issues the systemic risk regulator shouldkeep in mind are the following:• Focusing the process on managing risk. Thisshould not be a political process. It shouldfunction like a strong risk managementcommittee.• Eliminating gaps and overlaps in the system.For example, mortgages were regulatedby multiple entities, some of which did aterrible job, causing a “race to the bottom”as even good companies started to do badthings to maintain market share.• Analyzing areas like the mortgage marketand other elements of the consumer-financesystem to ensure that when new rules arewritten, they create a sound, safe, effectiveand consumer-friendly mortgage market.• Carefully tracking new products, as theyoften are the source of many problems.• Reviewing credit across the whole system –including “hidden” extensions of credit, suchas enhanced money market funds and SIVs.• Aggressively monitoring financial marketsand potential excesses, or bubbles. It may behard to detect bubbles, and it may be inadvisable,once detected, to exert a direct influenceon them with macro economic policy.However, it is appropriate to try to minimizethe collateral damage bubbles can cause. Italso would be appropriate to try to managebubbles, not by using monetary policy but byrestricting credit on specific markets (i.e., itwould have been appropriate to ask lendersto reduce loan-to-value ratios in mortgagesor to minimize speculation in the financialmarkets by reducing the leverage used in therepo markets).• Recognizing distortions as they develop inthe broader economy (fiscal deficits, tradeimbalances, structural state budget deficits)and forcing policy bodies to anticipate theproblems that may result.• Encouraging international coordination asmuch as possible – not only so companiescompete on a level playing field but alsobecause crises don’t stop at national borders.These are just some of the ways a systemicregulator could help fix the flaws in our regulatoryframework and create a system thatcontinually adapts and improves itself. We support an enhanced resolutionauthority — and the elimination of“too big to fail”Even if we achieve the primary goal of regulatingfinancial firms to prevent them fromfailing, we still have to get government out ofthe business of rescuing poorly managed firms.All firms should be allowed to fail no matterhow big or interconnected they are to otherfirms. That’s why we at JPMorgan Chase haveargued for an enhanced resolution authoritythat would let regulators wind down failingfirms in a controlled way that minimizesdamage to the economy and will never cost thetaxpayer anything. Fixing the “too big to fail”problem alone would go a long way towardsolving many of the issues at the heart of thecrisis. Just giving regulators this authority, inand of itself, would reduce the likelihood offailure as managements and boards wouldrecognize there is no safety net. Think of thisenhanced resolution as “specialized bankruptcy”for financial companies. The principlesof such a system would be as follows:• A failure should be based on a company’sinability to finance itself.• The regulator (or specialized bankruptcycourt) should be able to terminate managementsand boards.• Shareholders should be wiped out when abank fails – just like in a bankruptcy.• The regulator could operate the companyboth to minimize damage to the companyand to protect the resolution fund.• The regulator could liquidate assets or sellparts of the company as it sees fit.• Unsecured creditors should recover moneyonly after everyone else is paid – like in abankruptcy. (In fact, the resolution authorityshould keep a significant amount of therecovery to pay for its efforts and to fundfuture resolutions.)• In essence, secured creditors should betreated like they are treated in a bankruptcy.• The resolution fund should be paid forby the financial industry (like the FDIC istoday).• All institutions under this regime should livewith the exact same rules.• Regulators should make sure that companieshave enough equity and unsecured debtto prevent the resolution fund from everrunning out of money. To give an example,while Lehman had $26 billion in equity, italso had $128 billion in unsecured debt. Aresolution regulator, in my opinion, wouldclearly have been able to let Lehman meetits obligations, wind it down and/or sell it offand still have plenty of money left over toreturn some money to the unsecured creditors.Had this been done wisely, the economywould have been better off.• If a firm fails, there should be enough clarityabout the financial, legal and tax structuresof that firm to allow regulators, cooperatingacross international boundaries, to wind itdown in a controlled manner – what somerefer to as “living wills.”• While there is no argument about whoshould pay for the resolution (i.e., banks), thereare some technical issues about how it shouldbe funded. The resolution regulator does needto be able to fund these companies while theyare being wound down, and there are plenty ofappropriate ways to accomplish this.Once it is established that any firm can fail,firms of all sizes and shapes should be allowedto thrive. It is wrong to assume that big firmsinherently are risky. Banks shouldn’t be big forthe sake of being big, but scale can create valuefor shareholders and for consumers who arebeneficiaries of better products that are deliveredmore quickly and less expensively. Thesebenefits extend beyond individuals to includebusinesses that are bank clients, particularlythose that are global in scale and reach, andthe economy as a whole. banks’ capabilities, size and diversityenabled them to withstand the crisisand emerge from it as stronger firms. Thisstrength, in turn, made it possible for manyfirms to acquire weaker firms at the government’srequest and help to alleviate potentialdamage to the economy.Closing comments on regulationWhile we support the general principlesbehind enhanced regulation of derivatives,securitizations and enhanced consumer protections,we do not support each and every partof what is being recommended. The devil isin the details, and it is critical that the reformsactually provide the important safeguardswithout unnecessarily disrupting the health ofthe overall financial system.We also believe there are some serious ideasthat need attention if the system is to be mademore fail-safe:• Repo markets could be better structured,monitored and controlled.• Loan reserving could be made far lesspro-cyclical.• Securitization markets could be fixed so thatboth originators and distributors have skinin the game.• A system could be put into place to preventa “run” on money market funds.• The ability to buy shareholder or creditorvoting rights without owning and beingexposed to the risks of owning the underlyingsecurities should be extremely limited.Investors should not have the ability to votethe capital securities actually owned if theinvestors are voting for the failure of thecompany and stand to gain more on theirshort positions than on their long positions.• Finally, we support strong controls onso-called “naked short selling.”During the past year’s discussion among regulatorsand legislators, many other ideas havebeen proposed or recommended – from theVolcker Rule to new bank taxes to changes inBasel capital. These ideas are all in varyingstages of development and are too undefinedto comment on here. What we would urge ourregulators and legislators to do is proceed withclarity and purpose and avoid broadly penalizingall firms alike – regardless of whetherthey were reckless or prudent. As we grapple with the enormity of the issuesfacing the nation, we must not lose sightof our strengths. America has successfullybrought these strengths to bear on crises inthe past – some much bigger than the currentone – and I am optimistic about our ability todo so again.America’s success as a nation requires a strongand growing economy. A strong and growingeconomy requires the right kind of governmentpolicies and a private sector that isinnovative as well as responsible. Responsiblebusinesses can be both small and large – and,in a global economy, it behooves America tohave large multinational companies that areoperating on a global stage. Creating a culturethat ties it all together requires a greater senseof shared responsibility.America’s success is not a God-given right –it is something we always must work hardto achieve.The need for a strong economy and goodgovernmentAmerica’s success depends upon manythings, including good government (and thestrength of our exceptional military). But itcannot succeed without a healthy and vibranteconomy. That is what allows us to share therewards of success, defend our nation, educateour children and build a better future.A strong U.S. economy, one with the ability tocontinually improve and reform itself, dependson good government. Bureaucracy is lethal,and we cannot let it drain the energy, talent,creativity, drive and goodwill of our citizens –or those we encourage through our example,many of whom come to work and innovatein America. To thrive, our country and oureconomy need:• Legal clarity and consistency.• The fair application and steadfast enforcementof the rule of law.• Trade policies conducive to growing theAmerican economy and the global competitivenessof U.S. companies.• Immigration policies that allow America toattract the world’s best and brightest – anessential ingredient of our success as a nation.• Sensible and effective regulation thatprotects investors and the public.• A strong and efficient infrastructure (fromhighways and bridges to electrical grids, etc.).• The proactive promotion of economicgrowth and rules that foster U.S. capitalaccumulation.• Policies facilitating job growth, as opposed tothose that inadvertently make it harder to hire.Countries can have different social valuesand objectives (though I believe most countriesand most citizens would like to reducepoverty and suffering). But countries shouldnot confuse values and objectives with maintaininga strong economy.Healthy and growing countries can dowonderful things for their people. And countriesthat fail to create healthy economiesfrequently relegate their people to increasinglevels of pain and suffering. Many countrieshave professed wanting to help their peoplebut, instead, have damaged their countries andhurt their people. Maybe the intentions werereal, but, even if they were, the road to hell isoften paved with good intentions.Brazil is an example of a country that seemsto be successfully using pro-growth policiesto expand its economy while using thewealth from that economic growth to financeimportant social programs. Over the last 20years, Brazil has adopted many policies thatdramatically strengthened its economy. Italso bolstered its institutions, privatized itsbusinesses, improved the rule of law, left thebulk of capital allocation to the private capitalmarkets and developed world-class companies. Eight years ago, Brazil elected a left-leaningpresident, but he continued policies tostrengthen the economy. He also used someof the wealth to start a program called BolsaFamilia that gave Brazil’s poorest citizens vaccinations,education and $80 a month for food.The lesson is clear: Good policies andeconomic growth are not the enemy of socialprogress – they are the fuel for progress.Businesses need to be responsible — andhealthy and vibrantAt JPMorgan Chase, we feel a deep responsibilityto build a company that benefits ourcustomers, our employees, our shareholders andthe communities in which we operate aroundthe world. The best companies don’t make decisionsfor short-term profits. Contrary to publicopinion, corporations are not in business solelyto maximize quarterly earnings but rather toserve clients and earn their trust over a longperiod of time and, in so doing, earn a fair profit.Profits in any one year, in effect, are a reflectionof decisions that may go back decades.We always have been deeply committed tobeing good corporate citizens and adhering tothe following practices:• Treating our customers and employees withthe respect they deserve.• Building safe and useful products.• Maintaining ethical and responsible businesspractices.• Meeting our fiduciary responsibilities andcreating real value for shareholders.• Developing a company for the long run –one that stands the test of time.• Making a meaningful difference throughphilanthropic endeavors in supportingour communities.• Acknowledging our mistakes (which are anatural part of doing business), fixing themand learning from them.• Supporting the economies in which wework through job creation and appropriatetax payments. JPMorgan Chase, on average,pays more than $12 billion a year in taxes togovernments around the world.Building a great company allows investment inthe future, provides opportunities to employees,builds better products for customers and servescommunities. Companies that are not healthyand vibrant cannot do these things.Businesses — small to large — are one ofAmerica’s key strengthsA healthy business sector is fundamental toour economic strength: Of the 130 millionpeople who go to work every day in the UnitedStates, nearly 110 million are employed byprivate businesses. These private businessesare and always have been the nation’s primarydrivers of job creation and innovation.The strength of the business sector is rootedin its diversity, from the smallest start-up orfamily-owned firm to the largest multinationalcorporation.Indeed, the relationship between larger andsmaller businesses is symbiotic. Studies showthat for every one job created at a larger business,five jobs are created at smaller businessesthat provide supporting goods and services. AtJPMorgan Chase, in particular, we spend morethan $15 billion per year with approximately40,000 vendors, who provide jobs to millionsof employees.We need global flagship companies —including banksIn the current political environment, size inthe business community has been demonized,but the fact is that some businesses requiresize in order to make necessary investments,take extraordinary risks and provide vitalsupport globally. America’s largest companiesoperate around the world and employ millionsof people. This includes companies that canmake huge investments – as much as $10billion to $20 billion a year – and compete inas many as 50 to 100 countries to assure America’s long-term success. Combined, big andsmall businesses spend $1.5 trillion per yearon capital expenditures and $300 billion onresearch and development. It is estimated thatmore than 70% of the capital expenditures aremade by large companies.The productivity of our workers and the hugeeconomies of scale of our corporations (generatedfrom years of investing and innovating)are what ultimately drive our economy andincome growth. Employees at large companiesshare in that productivity: Compensation andbenefits for employees at large companies aresubstantially higher than at small firms.*It is estimated that large enterprises and largeforeign multinationals active in the UnitedStates have accounted for the majority of U.S.productivity growth since 1995.Companies such as Ford, Boeing, Pfizer, Caterpillar,Apple, Microsoft and Google are exemplarsof initiative and innovation worldwide.Cutting-edge companies like Hewlett-Packardunderpin vibrant networks of small and midsizesuppliers and vendors. Academic researchshows that these investments abroad actuallycreate more jobs in the United States.Large companies such as the ones mentionedabove need banking partners with largeenough balance sheets to finance transactionsaround the world. And it’s not just multinationalcorporations that rely on such scale:States and municipalities also depend onthe capital that a firm like JPMorgan Chasecan provide. To be sure, smaller banks play avital role in our nation’s economy but cannotalways provide the type of service, capital,breadth of products and speed of executionthat clients need. Only large banks have thescale and resources to connect markets aroundthe globe, in places like China, India, Brazil,South Africa and Russia; to execute diverseand large-scale transactions; to offer a range ofproducts and services, from loan underwritingand risk management to local lines of credit;to process terabytes of financial data; and toprovide financing in the billions.U.S. banks actually are less consolidated thanthose in the rest of the world, and our financialsystem is less dominated by large banks thanthat of almost any other nation. For example, in2007, the three largest U.S. banks held 34% oftotal U.S. bank assets – the second-lowest figureamong Organisation for Economic Co-operationand Development (OECD) nations, just aheadof Luxembourg; the average for the rest of theOECD nations was more than double, at 69%.Not only is our banking system not particularlyconcentrated, but our large banks are notrelatively large compared with the size of theU.S. economy. The arguments that “big is bad”and that “too consolidated is bad” are refuted bymany examples of countries with large, consolidatedbanking systems that did not have problemsat all (e.g., Canada).Capping the size of America’s largest bankswon’t change the needs of big business. Instead,it will force these companies to turn to foreignbanks that won’t face the same restrictions.JPMorgan Chase’s capabilities, size and diversitywere essential to withstanding the financialcrisis in 2008 and emerging as a stronger firm.Everyone needs to be responsibleAmerica was built on the principles of ruggedindividualism and self-responsibility. We needto continue to foster a sense of responsibility inall participants in the economy. Bad outcomesare not always someone else’s fault – we needto cultivate an environment where consumers,lenders, borrowers, businesses and investors alltake responsibility for their actions and don’tlook for someone else to blame. We have to stopslipping into a cacophony of finger-pointingand blame. And while bad actors always shouldbe punished, we also should note that not allwho got into trouble were irresponsible. Wefully acknowledge, for example, that many individualsfound themselves in a difficult positionthat was caused by a medical condition or lossof employment beyond their control, and theyshould be treated fairly and respectfully.The crisis of the past couple of years has hadfar-reaching consequences, among them thedeclining public image of banks and bankers. While JPMorgan Chase certainly made itsshare of mistakes in this tumultuous time,our firm always has remained focused on thefundamentals of banking and the part we canplay to support our clients and communities.Our 220,000 people go to work every day to doa great job serving clients, whose trust we haveto earn over many years. The vast majority ofour people, customers, operations and shareholdersare far from Wall Street – they actuallyare part of the everyday life of Main Street, invirtually every part of the country. And theyare active and contributing members of societyin communities around the world.Very often, when the public or politicianstake punitive efforts against banks like ours,they think they are punishing only the seniormanagement team, when, in fact, they arepunishing ordinary shareholders as well.Contrary to popular perception, Main Streetowns our biggest banks and corporationsthrough savings and retirement funds. Ourshareholders represent a true cross section ofAmerica, including teachers, retirees and publicemployees. When we reduce the debate overresponsibility and regulation to simplistic andinaccurate notions, such as Main Street vs. WallStreet, big business vs. small business or bigbanks vs. small banks, we are indiscriminatelyblaming the good and the bad – this is simplyanother form of ignorance and prejudice.By extension, when we vilify whole industriesor all of the business community, we are denigratingourselves and much of what made thiscountry successful. We also should refrain fromindiscriminate blame of any whole group ofpeople, including politicians or the media. Weneed to focus a bit less on daily media and pollsand more on the books that will be written afterthis crisis subsides. We all should ask ourselveswhether we, in a time of stress, did the rightthings the right way for the right reasons.ConclusionThe United States faces many challenges. Inthe short run, overcoming this economic crisisand getting our unemployed back to workare most important. In the long run, we mustconfront our health and education systems;develop a real, substantive energy policy;and build the infrastructure for the future.We also must confront the large U.S. deficit,being honest about the facts and being fiscallyresponsible for ourselves – it is dangerous towait for the global markets to pressure us intothat discipline. These are all serious challenges,but, if we work together, we can fix them.Your company continues to do everything itcan, in every community in which we work, tohelp the world recover as quickly as possible.In 2009, as they have so many times before,our people rose to the challenge, working amidtremendous uncertainty in a fragile economicand political environment. They also havecoped with the anger directed toward thefinancial services industry. Through it all, theydid not lose focus on why we are all here: toserve clients and, therefore, our communitiesaround the world. On behalf of JPMorganChase and its management and shareholders,I express my deepest gratitude to our people.I am proud to be their partner.Jamie DimonChairman and Chief Executive OfficerMarch 26, 2010