It was a challenging year for most companies, including our own. The economy, already weak at the outset of the year, fell into a full-fledged recession in the spring. Then came the tragedy of September 11. This tested the strength and resilience of the international financial system. While financial institutions, including our firm, passed the test with flying colors, subsequent events, including the collapse of Enron, undermined confidence in financial markets and raised serious questions about the integrity of accounting practices. Despite these challenges, over the course of 2001, we continued to build and enhance the competitiveness of the newly created JPMorgan Chase. I am pleased to report that: • We moved with great speed and purpose in executing a massive and complex merger, melding two great organizations into one. Our employee polls show a tremendous level of internal support for the new firm. • In the midst of a massive merger integration effort, we gained share in most of our client and product activities, including global mergers and acquisitions, the origination of bond issues, loan syndications and derivatives. In doing so, we demonstrated the value of our expanded franchise to clients in the face of difficult and volatile market conditions. • We aggressively reduced expenses and increased our goal for merger-related cost savings from $2.0 billion to $3.8 billion. By the end of 2001, we had captured more than three-quarters of our expected savings. Nevertheless, our 2001 results were disappointing. Combined with declining stock markets and a sharp reduction in the volume of mergers and acquisitions and initial public offerings, the recession made for a weak revenue environment for our investment banking, asset management and custody businesses. In addition, we had substantial losses in JPMorgan Partners, our private equity business. Lastly, there was an overall decline in credit quality in 2001, affecting both commercial and consumer credit. All of these factors weighed heavily on our results in 2001 and will most likely extend into 2002. We are dealing with all the issues in front of us, and we are doing so from a position of considerable strength. Our cash operating return on equity in 2001 was 10% — well below our target. Excluding the losses in JPMorgan Partners, historically a very profitable business, our cash operating return on equity was a more respectable 15%. Our Tier 1 capital ratio at year-end was 8.3% — well above the Federal Reserve’s standard for a “well-capitalized” institution. Finally, the credit performance of our loan portfolio, both commercial and consumer, held up better than industry averages. At year-end, nonperforming assets represented about 10% of equity, better than most of our peers. By contrast, the comparable ratio for certain of our predecessor institutions in the early 1990s,  the last recession in the U.S., was more than 100%. In addition, commercial loan charge-offs against loans outstanding were 87 basis points in 2001, compared with 101 basis points for our peer group. As we move beyond the current difficult credit cycle, there is much opportunity for improvement. Continuing progress in reducing costs and increasing productivity will result in a higher proportion of revenues flowing to the bottom line. We expect our private equity business, which historically has generated outstanding returns, to return to profitability. We have realigned this business to reduce and diversify our risk by creating new private equity funds that enable us to invest our capital alongside our clients. Our firm brings together an extraordinary breadth of capabilities — in investment banking, operating services, private banking,  asset management, private equity, and retail and middle market financial services. There is no question we have a tremendous strategic platform. It is combined with a strong commitment to financial discipline and rigorous risk management across all of our businesses. Even though we are going through one of the most difficult environments in recent times, I have never been more confident in the future of the firm. Vision and strategy By delivering our broad, deep and integrated global capabilities in a timely, efficient and creative manner, we expect to create exceptional value for our shareholders, clients and employees. We see three strategic requirements to succeed: scale, leadership positions, and integrated talent and product delivery.  We also believe that our diversified business model, combining wholesale and consumer financial services, will give us more growth opportunity and earnings stability over time. Let me begin with our global investment banking business, which accounts for nearly half of our total revenues, because the strategic landscape in this area could not be any clearer. The number of full-service firms in this field has been declining, and those that remain are becoming more and more capable. A handful of major global firms are emerging as the leaders in this sector, and we are among them. The “must-haves” to be a leader in the wholesale space are clear. Scale in terms of capital, clients and products is the first must-have. JPMorgan Chase has all of those attributes. We are one of the largest banks in the world in terms of revenues, total assets, income and market capitalization.  In addition, nearly half of our revenues and income in wholesale banking comes from our activities outside the U.S. With a strong presence in Europe, Asia and Latin America, we have the size and the reach to act as an integrated, full-service provider to corporations, governments and other institutions on a global basis. But size alone is not enough. The second must-have is leadership positions across a wide range of products and services, from syndicating loans, to underwriting bond and equity issues, to trading securities and advising clients on mergers and acquisitions and other complex business transactions. Our model enables us to provide creative and integrated solutions to globally oriented clients. As a result of our many leadership positions and our deep relations with clients, we are able to act on their behalf in taking advantage of windows of opportunity that may open in one area just as they are slamming shut in another. That happened in 2001 in a sudden shift from equities to bonds as the preferred method of raising capital for many companies. We have essentially all of the pieces. Now we must prove that we can provide seamless and superb execution. The ideal firm — the firm we have visualized in our mind’s eye as the new model for success — combines the breadth and clout of a big firm with the creativity and agility of a high-quality niche player. From a full gamut of leadership positions, with the insight that comes from a close working relationship with the client and as a result of the ability to act truly as “one team,” our people should be able to propose and deliver the exact right combination of products and services in any market, in any economic conditions, anywhere in the world. That is the essence of the third must-have: integrated talent and product delivery. As part of this integrated delivery, the capability to use our balance sheet intelligently to help our clients will, I believe, become an increasingly important differentiation in gaining market share against our competitors that do not have this capability. During 2001, we completed a number of complex transactions for clients that illustrate the power and potential of such a model. To cite one example, we were the lead arranger on a $1 billion-plus financing package that enabled a major Japanese automobile company to build a new assembly plant in the U.S. By combining investor coverage between JPMorgan teams in New York and Tokyo, our firm was able to provide 24-hour support and close an extremely complex transaction with several interlocking components (a syndicated loan, sale/leaseback and commercial paper) within a very tight time frame. At the same time, this was a transaction that depended from the start upon a close, top-level and long-established relationship between our firm and the client. There are abundant opportunities for synergy across many of our businesses and multiple avenues for creating additional value for existing and new clients. Our clients can benefit from our unique capabilities in investment banking, investment management and private banking, treasury and securities services, and private equity investing. And our global client base of corporations, governments and high net worth individuals is second to none. But that is not all there is to JPMorgan Chase. We also have a powerful and multi-faceted retail financial services franchise. While our wholesale businesses are known globally as JPMorgan, our retail businesses market themselves under the Chase name. Like our wholesale businesses, our retail businesses maintain leadership positions in key products and activities, have broad scale and demonstrate a real commitment to delivering the greatest value to the customer. In retail, as in wholesale, we are known for technological excellence — both in the quality of back-office infrastructure and in the knowledge and expertise of our people. Chase ranks among the leaders in the U.S. marketplace in credit cards, mortgage lending and auto finance. We have more than 27 million credit card accounts across the U.S., are the number one originator of auto loans (excluding the finance operations of the auto companies themselves) and are one of the leading originators of mortgages. Chase is a broad-scale and extremely efficient provider of these important personal financial services. At a regional level, we have strong branch networks in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut as well as in Texas. In the tri-state area, we are number one in deposit share and number one in middle market and small business lending and finance. Finally, through Brown & Company, we have a profitable online brokerage operation geared to high net worth individuals. Though small, Brown & Company operates on a national level and represents a vehicle for potential future growth. While the market for financial services is far more fragmented on the retail side than it is in wholesale, certain fundamentals apply in both worlds. One is the importance of flawless execution. That is why we are using the Six Sigma approach to drive improvements in quality and efficiency throughout JPMorgan Chase. Whether the product is a $50,000 mortgage or a multibillion- dollar underwriting, we aim to get everything right the first time. Similarly, in all of our businesses, we have invested heavily — not just in systems but in the education of our people — in making the best and most creative use of technology. In wholesale and retail financial services alike, our simple goal is to provide best-in-class products and integrated solutions that meet the complete financial needs of all of our clients and customers. Certainly, that is the way all of us at JPMorgan Chase felt in the days and weeks following September 11. The response of our people throughout the firm in tending to clients of every description was nothing short of extraordinary. They did everything from opening a business recovery center, to speeding the refinancing of a major airline, to working double shifts in London and Tokyo to keep the world’s foreign exchange and payments system working. One firm — one team Formally concluded on the last day of 2000, the merger of J.P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan brought together two of the greatest names in banking — with a combined history spanning hundreds of years. Not only was ours one of the most complex mergers in the history of financial services, but it also has been the most swiftly and fully executed of mergers. We did not wait to break down boundaries and build new teams and organizations from the ground up: We entered into this merger with a mindset of equality and inclusiveness. It helps, I believe, that we had a decade’s worth of prior experience in putting together large mergers and acquisitions. Our attitude is simply this: Pick the best people. Pick the best systems. Pick the best strategy. And do not wait to make the tough decisions that have to be made to cut costs and capitalize on opportunities for top-line growth. We also have put a huge emphasis on communications — on creating a common culture and aligning all our people around the vision and strategy. People want to be part of a team, and they especially want to be part of a winning team. At JPMorgan Chase, the vast majority of our employees responding to internal polls have signaled strong satisfaction with and commitment to the new firm. Clearly, most can see we are building a winning platform, and they are excited to be part of it. We have launched a broad range of leadership initiatives across the firm, including LeadershipMorganChase, our own version of a leadership and cultural learning center. Jack Welch, former chairman of General Electric — who is both a great leader and a great teacher — is acting as an advisor to us in this and other endeavors involving leadership development. LeadershipMorganChase will be an important tool in creating a strong common culture that capitalizes on opportunities for synergy across our firm and enables us to achieve true leadership in global financial services. In conclusion This past year also witnessed significant change in our senior management, as Sandy Warner retired as Chairman of the Board. His leadership and dedication helped create a smooth transition as two firms became one. I want to thank him for his invaluable partnership and for helping to create a foundation upon which our team will build. In addition, Marina Whitman, professor of business administration and public policy at the University of Michigan, will retire from our Board of Directors on the eve of the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. I deeply appreciate the counsel and guidance she has provided for the past 29 years. JPMorgan Chase is entering a new era. No longer are we consumed with the task of putting together the different pieces needed to achieve our vision of a richly diversified firm that will be one of the true leaders in global banking. We essentially have all of those capabilities in-house. We have built a tremendous platform. So now our task is to deliver — to perform. I am very confident of our ability to do just that. William B. Harrison, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer March 1, 2002