In last year’s shareholder letter, I referred to the “turbulence” and “unprecedented”nature of events that had taken place during the preceding months. We did not knowwhen the cycle would end or the extent of the damage it would cause. But we did knowthat we had to “prepare for a severe economic downturn.” Collectively, we resolved tonavigate through the tough conditions, to help our clients in every way we could and toshow leadership in the industry, as has been our legacy during times of crisis.It is now a year later. What transpired was largely unprecedented and virtually inconceivable.Our firm tried to meet every challenge, and, in the process, we distinguishedourselves in our service to clients and communities. Although our financial resultswere weak in absolute terms (but fairly good in relative terms), reflecting terriblemarket conditions, I believe—and I hope you agree—that this year may have been oneof our finest.The way forward will not be easy. We do not know what the future will bring, but we doknow that it will require everyone— the banks, the regulators and the government — towork together and get it right. As we prepare for a very tough 2009, with most signspointing to continued deterioration of the economy, we still remain long-term optimistsabout our future and that of our country. Whatever may come, we will meet the challenge.In this letter, I will describe our 2008 performance by line of business and review themany critical events of the previous year. I also will focus on where the industry wentwrong and what the implications for the future may be. I hope, after reading this letter,you will share my confidence in our ability to build a stronger, more vibrant companyfor the future. I. REVIEW OF 2008 FINANCIALPERFORMANCE AND BUSINESS RESULTSJPMorgan Chase earned nearly $6 billion in 2008,down 64% from the $15 billion we earned in the prioryear. During a “normal” credit cycle and environment,we should earn more than $15 billion. So clearly, thiswas not a great year financially. Essentially, the year’sfinancial results were marred by two issues, both ofwhich were highlighted as major risks in last year’sletter. The first related to increasing credit costs, mostlyfor consumer and mortgage loans. The secondresulted from Investment Bank write-downs of morethan $10 billion, primarily from leveraged lending andmortgage exposures.Throughout this financial crisis, we have benefitedfrom a fortress balance sheet. We started this yearwith Tier 1 capital of 8.4% and ended it with 10.9%.We increased credit loss reserves to $24 billion (upalmost $14 billion, including $4 billion related toWashington Mutual (WaMu)). Even without the infusionof government capital in the year’s final quarter,our Tier 1 capital at year-end would have been 8.9%.Across all other measures of capital, we have remainedrelatively conservative. Although we did not anticipateall of the extraordinary events of the year, our strongbalance sheet, general conservatism and constant focuson risk management served us well and enabled us toweather this terrible environment.While we are disappointed with our 2008 financialresults, we have not lost sight of our importantachievements. We are extremely gratified that we wereable to grow and gain healthy market share in virtuallyall of our businesses. And we never stopped investingin our systems and infrastructure and adding bankers,branches and products.Regardless of what 2009 will bring, this emphasis onserving clients and growing our businesses will driveour results for years to come.A. Results by Line of BusinessThe Investment Bank reported a loss of $1.2 billionOur Investment Bank (IB) had disappointing financialresults on an absolute basis but performed relativelywell compared with most of our competitors. Theresults reflect a tough operating environment and sufferedfrom the aforementioned $10 billion in write-downson leveraged lending and mortgage-relatedassets, partially related to the acquisition of BearStearns. While those write-downs were painful, theywere among the lowest in our industry. Moreover, ourunderlying business performed solidly, and in somenotable areas, it outperformed. Several core businesses– Rates and Currencies, Commodities, EmergingMarkets and Credit Trading – reported record results.We also were able to make significant progress acrossour IB business. At the end of May, we closed our acquisitionof Bear Stearns, which I will discuss in more detaillater in this letter. Throughout the year, we stayed completelyfocused on servicing our corporate and investorclients, and in spite of the credit crisis, we continued tobe there for our clients when they needed our advice andresponsible capital support. J.P. Morgan was engaged innearly all of the largest and most complex deals of theyear, and we solidly established ourselves as the first callfor clients on their most important challenges.We try not to overemphasize market share tables orawards, but years of focus and discipline did lead tosome extraordinary industry recognition that is worthnoting. We earned our best rankings ever across theleague tables, finishing first in global investment bankingfees; mergers and acquisitions; global syndicatedloans; debt; equity; and debt and equity-related transactions– the only firm ever to finish No. 1 in all ofthese categories in a given year. In our Markets businesses,client revenue increased 40% year-over-year, asclients shifted more of their business to us in uncertaintimes. In addition, J.P. Morgan received top awardsfrom International Financing Review, Risk and FinancialNews and received a leading number of distinctions inthe Greenwich Associates’ 2008 Quality Leader survey– a record number of industry honors for us. As we move into 2009, we are not resting on ourlaurels. We know we operate in a risky business withmany tough competitors who inevitably will comeback strong – even if some currently are distracted.We also know that the investment banking business,in many ways, will never be the same. Leverage will belower, and certain structured financial products willlikely cease to exist. But the fundamental business willremain the same: advising corporations and investors,raising capital, executing trades, providing research,making markets, and giving our clients the best ideasand the financing to make those plans a reality.Retail Financial Services reported net income of$880 million with an ROE of 5%With $880 million in earnings, Retail FinancialServices (RFS) had a poor year overall. For its twoprimary businesses – Retail Banking and ConsumerLending – it was a tale of two cities.On the plus side, Retail Banking, which includesConsumer Banking and Business Banking, earned$3 billion and, more important, grew its franchise –both organically and through the acquisition ofWashington Mutual. We expect the WaMu acquisitionto contribute more than $2 billion in annual earnings,and it has extended our branch network to more than5,000 branches in 23 states, adding 7,200 bankers andincreasing our ATMs to 14,500, the second-largest ATMnetwork nationally. In Retail Banking, since the BankOne merger and the addition of The Bank of New Yorkand WaMu branch networks, we have exponentiallygrown our footprint, adding 4,400 branches throughacquisition and 500 organically. This five-year expansionis reflected in more checking accounts (from 2.3million to 24 million), more deposits (from $89 billionto $342 billion) and more states in which we operate(from four to 23).On the negative side, Consumer Lending, whichincludes the Mortgage, Home Equity, Student Loanand Auto Finance businesses, reported a loss of $2.1billion, driven by a 274% increase, to $9.5 billion, inthe provision for credit losses, primarily in the homelending businesses. Despite these losses, ConsumerLending remains core to what we do. It enables usto serve customers across many products and extend$352 billion in loans. However, continued pressureon home prices, the effects of past poor underwritingstandards and the deepening recession have pushedup, and, unfortunately, will continue to push up, creditcosts. Our current expectation is that quarterly charge-offsfor the Mortgage and Home Equity portfolioscould range from $1.8 billion to $2.4 billion (anextremely high annualized loss rate of 3.5% to 5%).By the end of 2008, we had reserves of more than $8billion across all of RFS, and, with the expectation ofhigher charge-offs, we also expect to build additionalreserves in 2009. However, there is one area that hasshown an improving trend: third-party mortgageservicing. This business relies on scale and efficiencyand, including the addition of the WaMu portfolio,it grew 91% to $1.17 trillion of loans.We believe we have corrected for the underwritingmistakes of the past. Essentially, by the end of 2008,we saw a return to old-fashioned home lending standards(a maximum of 80% loan-to-value, with fullydocumented income). In addition, we closed down allbusiness originated by mortgage brokers. My worstmistake of the past several years was not doing thissooner. In general, the credit losses in the broker originatedbusiness are two to three times worsethan that of our own directly originated business.Unfortunately, approximately 30% of our home loanswere originated through the broker channel. Althoughwe will be paying for this bad underwriting for yearsto come, we will continue to build the ConsumerLending business with new standards in place.We have always loved the Retail Banking business andbelieve that the exceptional economics of the branch-basedbusinesses will fuel growth and earn a return onequity (ROE) of more than 30% over time. As for theConsumer Lending business, it should produce returnsof 15%-20%, especially as we capitalize on the benefitsof cross-selling and cross-underwriting. Card Services reported net income of $780 million withan ROE of 5%Card Services’ full-year net income was $780 million,down 73% year-over-year as charge-offs increased from$5.5 billion in 2007 to $8.2 billion in 2008 (up 48%).The net charge-off rate was approximately 5% of loans.In 2008, Card Services increased net revenue by 8%and grew managed loans by 3% (excluding WaMu).In 2008, we added 14.9 million new credit cardaccounts. By investing in activities to further engagecurrent cardmembers and attract new customers, wecontinued growing the business. These activitiesincluded renewing contracts with important partners(AARP, Continental, Disney, Marriott and United) andenhancing our customer service. Equally important,Chase kept credit open and available to customers andbusinesses in a safe and sound manner and extendedmore than $84 billion in new credit.With the WaMu acquisition, Chase became the largestcredit card issuer in the nation, with more than 168million cards in circulation and more than $190 billionin managed loans. Yet, being the biggest does notmean we are the best. We will continue to invest inareas that will make us the best in the business.Specifically, our focus will be on responsive customerservice, valued loyalty and rewards programs, andupgraded systems and infrastructure. In addition, ourability to do a better job underwriting and to give ourcustomers added value through cross-selling is a hugecompetitive advantage in both the card and retailbanking businesses.Our focus on sound risk management extends to thecard business. Early in this crisis, we responded quicklyto leading indicators of change and made considerablerisk management improvements. This included:raising the credit-score threshold for direct-mail marketingand increasing the number of applications thatare subject to our thorough review process. We regularlymanage our customers’ credit lines, based ontheir willingness and ability to pay. While we arelowering credit lines for customers who show signsof increased risk or inactivity, we also are raising linesfor our most creditworthy customers. In addition, weare closing accounts that have been inactive for longperiods of time because we know from experience thatthese accounts are extremely risky.Looking ahead, we expect losses will continue toincrease from 5% to 9%, essentially tracking the rateof unemployment. To prepare for higher losses, weincreased our reserves from $3 billion to $8 billion andare intensifying our collections efforts. At the sametime, we have expanded our use of flexible paymentprograms to help those customers experiencing financialdistress: In 2008, we saw 600,000 new enrollmentsin payment programs, and we anticipate, and areprepared for, that number to increase.We do not expect 2009 to be a good year for the creditcard business. In fact, we do not expect to make anymoney in Card Services this year. However, once thiscrisis is over, we believe that our ongoing investmentsin service quality, rewards programs and enhancedinfrastructure will ultimately make us one of the bestcredit card companies in America. Commercial Banking reported net income of $1.4 billionwith an ROE of 20%Commercial Banking delivered strong results, outperformingits peer group and even exceeding our 2008plan in a tough year. Strong credit quality, riskmanagement, client service, operational efficiency,expense control and effective pricing all contributed tothe strong result: a 27% increase to a record $1.4 billionof net income, on a record $4.8 billion in revenue.And instead of relying on lending to be the key driverof revenue, Commercial Banking achieved recordresults in gross investment banking revenue of $966million (up 9%), treasury services revenue of $2.6billion (up 13%), average liability balances of $103.1billion (up 18%) and average loan balances of $82.3billion (up 35%). It also is notable that only 36% ofCommercial Banking’s revenue relates to loans.In addition to ranking among the top three commercialbanks nationally in market penetration and leadshare and being the No. 2 large middle-market lenderin the United States, Commercial Banking maintaineda favorable market position relative to peers in riskmanagement and deposit growth. We also are encouragedby the prospects for the Commercial TermLending business we acquired from WaMu and theexpansion of our middle-market model across theWest and Southeast footprints. As ever, client selectionis critical to our success, and Commercial Banking hasnot only created more than 1,800 new relationships butalso has expanded nearly 10,000 existing relationships– a sign of the continued vitality of our business.That said, due to our clients’ waning loan demand andhigher credit losses, 2009 will be a tough year for theCommercial Banking business. While we expect problemsin commercial construction and real estate toworsen for the rest of this year, we are fortunate tohave limited exposure and strong reserves. The turbulencein the economy and its anticipated impact on thebroader Commercial Banking portfolio have led us toshift into a recession-management mode and dedicatemany of our best resources into critically importantworkout units, where expert senior managers areinvolved on a daily basis.Commercial Banking is a business with excellent long-termvalue for us. We play a critical role in serving somany great companies across this nation. And as thisimportant and vibrant sector of the economy grows,so will we.Treasury & Securities Services reported record net incomeof $1.8 billionTreasury & Securities Services (TSS) delivered exceptionalfinancial results in 2008. Its net income has morethan doubled since 2005. For 2008, it stands at $1.8 billion(up 26%), with a 47% return on equity, on recordrevenue (up 17%). We value this business tremendouslyand appreciate how it has grown consistently overtime, produced good margins, and maintained greatglobal scale and long-standing client relationships.The business maintains a leading position in holding,valuing, clearing and servicing securities and providingcash management, corporate card and liquidity products,and trade finance services to the world’s leadingcompanies and institutional investors. We now servemore than 2,800 clients around the world. In 2008,TSS brought in more than 250 significant new clientrelationships, representing more than $80 million inannualized revenue. In a business with global scale,50% of TSS’ revenue is from business outside theUnited States, and in 2008, this revenue grew by15%. TSS further strengthened its internationalpresence, expanding services in more than 20 countriesthroughout Europe, the Middle East, Africa,Asia and Latin America – we now do business inmore than 45 countries.Notably, TSS also broke its single-day U.S. dollar-clearingvolume record – by clearing a staggering $5trillion in a single day, 59% over its average. Due tomarket conditions, TSS assets under custody decreasedby 17% to $13.2 trillion. Yet, at the same time, averageliability balances were up 22% to $280 billion, reflectinga flight to quality as clients were drawn to thestability of J.P. Morgan.TSS is preparing for continued stress in the equitymarkets in 2009, declining securities lending balancesand the negative impact of 0% interest rates.Nevertheless, it remains an excellent business, servingclients from all five of our other businesses, and weexpect it to produce strong results for years to come.Asset Management reported net income of $1.4 billionwith an ROE of 24%Asset Management, with assets under supervision of$1.5 trillion, experienced a turbulent year in 2008. Asanticipated in this letter last year, earnings dropped(by 31%). But overall, the year’s results were the resultof three trends: continued strong growth in PrivateBanking, a small reduction in assets under management(but a large change in the mix of asset types)and a rigorous management of risk.Private Banking had an exceptional year, bringing in arecord number of new clients and a record level of netnew assets (approximately $80 billion, for a total of$538 billion). Earnings grew 12%. Over the past twoyears, more than 235 new bankers have joined thePrivate Bank and promise to contribute significantlyto its future growth.Assets under management were $1.13 trillion at theend of 2008 versus $1.19 trillion in 2007. Net newinflows were a healthy $151 billion, up 31% from theprior year. Unfortunately, this was more than offset bythe declines in market values. In addition, there was alarge change in the mix of assets. The cash we managefor all our clients increased dramatically, with liquiditybalances growing by $210 billion to reach $613 billionby year-end, as clients globally sought safety awayfrom higher-risk investments. Equities and alternativeswent in the opposite direction, with a 49% decline to$240 billion from $472 billion, largely due to a 41%drop in the value of equity markets. Finally, alternativeassets dropped 17% to $100 billion from $121 billion.The current turmoil has reinforced the importance ofmanaging risk. Our culture of strong risk management(proper due diligence, documentation, auditing, amongother measures) is consistent with our philosophy ofputting clients’ interests first and has enabled us toavoid many of the negative developments that surfacedlast year.We anticipate another difficult year in 2009, withearnings continuing to be affected by market conditions.But this is a great business, and we intend tokeep it that way by focusing on helping our clientsthrough the current environment.The Corporate sector reported net income of $557 millionIn 2008, we reported a net loss of $700 million inPrivate Equity – a different story from 2007, when wereported pre-tax private equity gains of more than $4billion. We love the private equity business, but as weindicated in prior years, private equity returns are bytheir nature lumpy, and we did not expect the stellar2007 results to be repeated in 2008. We will remainpatient and still expect this business to deliver inexcess of 20% return on equity for us over time. Aside from Private Equity, our Corporate sector,excluding merger-related items, produced $1.5 billionin net income. This includes unallocated corporateexpense of approximately $500 million, which weexpect to continue at approximately the same levelin 2009, as well as a myriad of other items that aredisclosed in detail in our financial statements.B. Strong strategic positions of all our businessesOne important and critical point to highlight is thateach of our businesses now ranks as one of the topthree players in its respective industry. As ever, ourgoal is to be the best, not necessarily the biggest. Thatsaid, we know that size matters in businesses whereeconomies of scale – in areas such as systems, operations,innovation, branding and risk diversification –can be critical to success. The only reason to getbigger and gain economies of scale is when doing soenables you to do a better job for your clients; i.e., bygiving them more, better and faster at a lower cost.Ultimately, this is also the only real reason to do amerger – the client gets something better. If this isn’tthe case, big can be bad. If bureaucracy, hubris, lack ofattention to detail – or other ailments of large corporations– overwhelm the benefits of size, then failure willultimately result.We are also keenly aware of the value added at moredetailed levels in our businesses. For example, inRetail Financial Services, we gained share with smallbusinesses as we expanded our brand footprint. OurInvestment Bank has become a top player in bothPrime Brokerage and Energy, previously two of ourweak spots. Commercial Banking added WaMu’sCommercial and Community Lending businessesto its portfolio, representing $44.5 billion in loans.And Private Banking’s record in net new asset flowsshowed the strength of the J.P. Morgan franchise, ashigh-net-worth individuals worldwide chose us to managetheir investments. We also continue to upgradeour infrastructure by improving systems, data centers,products and services.Suffice it to say, we like our market position andbelieve that each business is strong and gettingstronger. Even in tough years like 2008 and 2009,we did not – and will not – stop doing all the thingsthat make our businesses better. II. REVIEW OF CRITICAL EVENTS OFTHE YEARIn this section, I want to review some of the criticalevents for us this past year:• The purchase of Bear Stearns• The purchase of Washington Mutual• The gathering storm that arrived with a vengeance• The acceptance of government TARPA. The purchase of Bear StearnsOn May 30, 2008, we closed our acquisition of BearStearns – a deal completed in record time under trulyextraordinary circumstances.Over the weekend of March 15, we were asked by theU.S. government to assist in preventing Bear Stearnsfrom going bankrupt before the opening of the Asianmarkets on Monday morning. The possibility was realthat if Bear Stearns had been allowed to go bankrupt,it could have had a cataclysmic effect on the financialmarkets. (Many believe that later experiences withLehman Brothers essentially proved this to be true.) Toa person, our Board of Directors felt JPMorgan Chasehad a special obligation to do all we could to help, especiallyknowing that we were among the few companies– if not the only one – in a position to do so. However,this deal posed more risks and threatened to be morebackbreaking than any other acquisition we had done inthe past. And it had to make sense for our shareholders.Going into this deal, we had two things in our favor:the strength of our balance sheet and capital base andthe skill of our people.Our first priority was to quickly reduce our downsiderisk. This required us to massively de-risk Bear Stearnsquickly and in potentially dangerous markets. BearStearns had approximately $400 billion in assets thatwe needed to consolidate into our financial and risk systemsand reduce quickly to approximately $200 billionof assets. We had to manage this reduction so that theremaining risk was manageable and well-controlled. Thepotential downside – given the treacherous markets –was enormous. We asked the government to financeand assume the risk on approximately $30 billion ofmortgage assets (compared with our $370 billion of totalassets acquired from Bear Stearns). The portion thatthe government agreed to take comprised the less riskymortgage assets (we kept the most risky mortgageassets). We simply could not and would not take onany more mortgage risk – it would have been extremelyirresponsible. And remember, the government couldfinance the assets much more cheaply than we couldand could hold them as it saw fit, whereas we wouldhave been forced to sell them immediately.Under normal conditions, the price we ultimately paidfor Bear Stearns would have been considered low bymost standards. But these were not normal conditions,and because of the risk we were taking, we needed ahuge margin for error. We were not buying a house –we were buying a house on fire.We paid $1.5 billion for Bear Stearns, a company thathad reported a little more than $11 billion in commonequity. We knew that most – but we hoped not all – ofthe common equity we were buying would be used forclose-down costs, litigation expenses, severance costsand, most important, quickly eliminating the risk on thebalance sheet. We have largely completed this task, but,unfortunately, all of the equity was used up in thisprocess, and several billions more in losses ran throughour income statement in the second half of 2008.Despite these additional costs, we still believe thatBear Stearns has added significantly to our franchise.In particular, it completed our franchise in twoareas where we were weak, Prime Brokerage andCommodities, and it enhanced our broader equity andfixed income businesses. Ultimately, we expect thebusinesses we acquired to add approximately $1 billionof annual earnings to the company.The truly impressive part of the Bear Stearns deal wasthe human side – seeing our people rise to the challengeunder a great deal of strain. On Thursday night,March 13, I called our investment banking heads, SteveBlack and Bill Winters, who then called our finance,audit, tax, trading and banking professionals as well aslegal, real estate and systems teams around the world –many of whom got out of bed and went back to work. Soon, hundreds returned to work that night. By theweekend, thousands of people from around the worldwere working around the clock. These professionalsably managed the due diligence work and gave us theconfidence we needed to complete the deal. TheirHerculean effort over that weekend and the next severalmonths made it possible for us to sign and close thedeal in about 75 days. If you could have seen what Isaw during that intensely stressful time, you wouldhave been very proud of the team at JPMorgan Chase.B. The purchase of WaMuOn September 25, the Federal Deposit InsuranceCorporation (FDIC) seized the banking assets ofWashington Mutual in the largest bank failure inhistory. Moments later, we acquired the deposits,assets and certain liabilities of Washington Mutualfor approximately $1.9 billion. We now know thatJPMorgan Chase was the only bank prepared to actimmediately. We acquired WaMu’s 2,200 branches,5,000 ATMs and 12.6 million checking accounts, aswell as savings, mortgage and credit card accounts.Importantly, we did not acquire the assets or liabilitiesof the bank’s holding company or assume the $14billion of senior unsecured debt and subordinateddebt of Washington Mutual’s banks.The deal was financially compelling – it was immediatelyaccretive to earnings, and it will add an estimated$2 billion or 50 cents per share to our 2009 results andincreasingly more thereafter. To achieve these anticipatedearnings, we did not rely on heroic revenueassumptions. Instead, we mostly relied on expectedcost savings (net of the large investments in thetechnology and refurbishment of the branches) of $1.5billion. We now expect to achieve cost savings of morethan $2 billion. We also plan to complete all rebrandingand system conversions by the end of this year.With the acquisition of WaMu, we purchased approximately$240 billion of mortgage and mortgage-relatedassets, with $160 billion in deposits and $38 billion inequity. We immediately wrote down most of the bador impaired assets (approximately $31 billion), properlyreserved for the remaining assets, and establishedreserves for severance and close-down costs. Afterrecognizing all of these costs, we believe that we nowhave a relatively “clean” company that came withapproximately $4 billion in “good” common equity.Our due diligence on WaMu’s assets was extensive,and our assumptions were conservative. We assumedthat home prices would go down another 10% (fromthe day we closed), providing a healthy margin forerror. However, if home prices go down more thanexpected, say 20%, all other things being equal, thiscould cost us $5 billion-$10 billion more. Even underthese circumstances, we think the transaction willremain a great deal, at a great price for our shareholders.We are confident that it will add enormous valueto JPMorgan Chase in the future.Given our conservative nature, we sold $11.5 billion incommon stock the morning after the deal announcementto maintain our strong capital base. The capital raise –upsized due to strong response from investors – was thelargest U.S. common stock follow-on offering ever executed.In addition, WaMu’s retail deposits contributedto our stable funding base and liquidity position.In prior years, we consistently expressed our desire tobroaden our retail footprint to attractive regions suchas the West Coast and Florida – as long as the planmade good sense financially and we could execute thetransaction effectively. The WaMu transaction alignedperfectly with this criteria. Specifically, it expands ourretail franchise into fast-growing new markets withestablished branches; bolsters our presence in oursignificant footprint states; and, over time, will allowus to extend the reach of our commercial banking,business banking, credit card and wealth managementefforts. These additional businesses were not heritagestrengths of WaMu but, in effect, can be built on topof the WaMu branches and we hope eventually willadd another $500 million to our earnings (this willtake many years and was not built into our originalassumptions). An expanded product line, togetherwith enhanced systems, will benefit former WaMucustomers tremendously. Our people across the business – together with ourexperts in systems, marketing, legal, finance, audit andhuman resources – did an outstanding job executingthis transaction, making it possible for us to take thisimportant strategic step.C. The gathering storm arrived with a vengeance —and how JPMorgan Chase faredIn 2008, Bear Stearns collapsed; Lehman Brothersdeclared bankruptcy; Fannie Mae and Freddie Macwere placed into government conservatorship; thegovernment assumed majority ownership of AIG;Merrill Lynch sold itself to Bank of America; WellsFargo took over a struggling Wachovia; IndyMac andWaMu went into receivership by the Federal DepositInsurance Corporation; Countrywide and the U.S.mortgage business virtually collapsed; the two remainingmajor investment banks, Goldman Sachs andMorgan Stanley, became bank holding companies;around the globe, French, British, Swiss and Germanbanks were rescued by their governments; and theworld entered the sharpest, most globalized downturnsince the Great Depression.As for JPMorgan Chase, we had large credit and operationalexposures in virtually every situation mentionedabove, affecting nearly every line of business. Ourfirm’s management teams, credit officers, risk officers,and legal, finance, audit and compliance teams workedtirelessly to protect the company. We believe it is aconsiderable sign of strength that we could managethrough such extraordinary problems with minimallosses to the company.We avoided many critical problems that would havemade things far worseIn last year’s letter, we focused on our problems –including mortgage issues in Retail Financial Servicesand write-downs in the Investment Bank of leveragedloans and mortgage securities. Those issues cost us aconsiderable amount of money in 2008 and will continueto cost us money in 2009. But it also is instructiveto focus on how we were able to avoid certain problems,control the damage and minimize the cost.In 2008:• We essentially stayed away from sponsoring structuredinvestment vehicles (SIV) because we viewedthem as arbitrage vehicles with plenty of risk and alimited business purpose. We also minimized ourfinancing to SIVs for the same reasons, and back in2005, we sold the only small SIV we had sponsored.• We didn’t write option ARMs (adjustable ratemortgages) because we did not think they were aconsumer-friendly product. Although we madeplenty of mistakes in the mortgage business, thiswas not one of them.• We substantially cut back on subprime early in thecrisis. While subprime mortgages cost us nearly $1billion in 2008, we avoided far worse results becausewe had significantly reduced our exposures in 2006.This was true both in the mortgage business and inthe Investment Bank.• We never built up the structured finance business.While we are a large player in the asset-backedsecurities market, we deliberately avoided the structuredcollateralized debt obligation (CDO) businessbecause we believed the associated risks were toohigh. Structured finance in its most complicatedforms, such as “CDO-squared,” has largely disappearedafter unleashing a myriad of problems onthe financial system. They will not be missed.• We did not unduly leverage our capital, nor did werely on low-quality forms of capital. We always hadhigh targets of 8% to 8.5% Tier 1 capital. We alwaysbelieved in “high-quality” capital, which, amongother things, means conservative accounting, strongloan loss reserves and a high component of tangiblecommon equity. The higher the quality of capital,the more prepared one is for tough times.• We maintained a high level of liquidity – and werealways prepared for unexpected draws (i.e., collateralcalls). Strong liquidity is a constant for us. The factthat we have total deposits of $1 trillion across ourretail and wholesale businesses positions the firmadvantageously overall and has helped us weatherthe worst of the crisis. We will do whatever it takesto ensure that our liquidity remains a strong part ofour fortress balance sheet so that we can maintainflexibility during challenging times to be in a positionto support our clients.• We avoided short-term funding of illiquid assets,and we essentially do not rely on wholesale funding.(Of our $1 trillion of deposits, approximately $300billion is referred to as “wholesale,” but it essentiallyis comprised of deposits that corporate clients leavewith us in the normal course of business – i.e., theyare “sticky” and not like brokered certificates ofdeposit or “hot money” that move on a whim for onebasis point.) Simply put, we still follow the financialcommandment: Do not borrow short to invest long.D. The acceptance of government TARPOn October 13, 2008, I went to Washington, D.C., witheight chief executives of other financial firms. There,we were asked by the Secretary of the Treasury, theChairman of the Federal Reserve, the Office of theComptroller of the Currency (OCC), the FDIC and theNew York Federal Reserve Bank to agree to accept apackage of capital from the government. As part of itsTroubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the U.S. governmentwas proposing some powerful measures tohelp fix the collapse in the credit and lending markets.They prevailed upon the nine of us to set an examplefor others by accepting this capital infusion as a signof our unanimous support of these measures. The logicwas that a massive infusion of capital into the U.S.banking system would pave the way for the industryas a whole to extend more credit than they otherwisewould have provided. The government’s view was alsothat if any of the banks declined the TARP funds, thenmany of the additional banks might not want to betainted by their acceptance of the TARP moneybecause it might be viewed as a sign of weakness.We felt then that accepting the TARP funds was the rightthing to do for the U.S. financial system – even though itmay not have been as beneficial for JPMorgan Chase asit was for some of the othersIn short, we did not ask for the TARP capital infusion,and we did not feel we needed it (our Tier 1 capital atyear-end would have been 8.9% without it). In fact,the TARP program had asymmetric benefits to thoseaccepting it; i.e., it was least beneficial to strong companieslike ours and vice versa. That said, we believethat accepting the TARP funds was the right thing todo for the U.S. financial system – and that JPMorganChase should not be parochial or selfish and stand inthe way of actions that the government wanted to taketo help the whole financial system. We think the government acted boldly in a very toughsituation, the outcome of which could have possibly beenfar worse had it not taken such stepsThe government acted quickly and boldly – takingunorthodox steps to try to right the ship. It had to actwith urgency while dealing with complex and rapidlychanging problems that did not lend themselves tosimplistic solutions. While we will never actuallyknow, we believe, as many economists and analysts do,that without these and other actions the governmenthas taken to date, things could have been much worse.So while it is easy to criticize the timing, marketing orconsistency of the effort – we also recognize how hardit is to act boldly in difficult and dangerous times. Weshould remind ourselves of what President TheodoreRoosevelt expressed nearly a century ago:“It is not the critic who counts; not the man who pointsout how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer ofdeeds could have done them better. The credit belongsto the man who is actually in the arena, whose face ismarred by dust and sweat and blood; who strivesvaliantly; who errs, who comes short again and again,because there is no effort without error and shortcoming;but who does actually strive to do the deeds; whoknows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; whospends himself in a worthy cause; who at the bestknows in the end the triumph of high achievement, andwho at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daringgreatly, so that his place shall never be with those coldand timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.”We hope that our leaders will continue to be boldand brave in seeking solutions to these once-in-a-generationproblems.Banks are lending, and the TARP is probably helpingIt is important to recognize that TARP capital is only14% of our total capital. It is also important to recognizethat to the extent we use the money and lose it,the risk is 100% ours because we still owe the moneyback to the government. Despite that, we, and otherbanks, are trying to use TARP capital to benefit shareholders,clients and communities. In the fourth quarterof 2008 alone, we extended more than $150 billion innew credit to consumers, businesses, municipalitiesand not-for-profit organizations, including nearly $30billion in home lending and $2.8 billion in auto lending.We increased loans and commitments to governmentunits, health care companies and not-for-profitsby 33% in 2008 and plan to increase lending to thesegroups by $5 billion in 2009. We also completed severalmajor syndicated leveraged finance loans, and, inone critical instance, we bought the entire $1.4 billionbond issue from the state of Illinois when no oneelse would bid for it, giving Illinois the financing forpayroll and other important needs. Finally, we remainvery active in the interbank market (where banks lendto each other) and have had on average $40 billion to$50 billion out in the interbank market each night.While total lending by banks fluctuates according tothe markets and changing credit conditions, we dobelieve that TARP has enabled many banks to increasetheir lending in certain key areas – more than theyotherwise would have done.While we clearly understood that there might bepotential (mostly political) unintended consequencesof TARP, we believed that it would help the U.S.financial system at that critical moment. III. FUNDAMENTAL CAUSES ANDCONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FINANCIALCRISISAfter Lehman’s collapse, the global financial systemwent into cardiac arrest. There is much debate overwhether Lehman’s crash caused it – but looking back,I believe the cumulative trauma of all the aforementionedevents and some large flaws in the financialsystem are what caused the meltdown. If it hadn’tbeen Lehman, something else would have been thestraw that broke the camel’s back.The causes of the financial crisis will be written about,analyzed and subject to historical revisions for decades.Any view that I express at this moment will likelybe proved incomplete or possibly incorrect over time.However, I still feel compelled to attempt to do sobecause regulation will be written soon, in the nextyear or so, that will have an enormous impact on ourcountry and our company. If we are to deal properlywith this crisis moving forward, we must be brutallyhonest and have a full understanding of what causedit in the first place. The strength of the United Stateslies not in its ability to avoid problems but in ourability to face problems, to reform and to change. Soit is in that spirit that I share my views.Albert Einstein once said, “Make everything as simpleas possible, but not simpler.” Simplistic answers orblanket accusations will lead us astray. Any plan forthe future must be based on a clear and comprehensiveunderstanding of the key underlying causes of –and multiple contributors to – the crisis, whichinclude the following:• The burst of a major housing bubble• Excessive leverage pervaded the system• The dramatic growth of structural risks andthe unanticipated damage they caused• Regulatory lapses and mistakes• The pro-cyclical nature of virtually all policies,actions and events• The impact of huge trade and financing imbalanceson interest rates, consumption and speculationEach main cause had multiple contributing factors.As I wrote about these causes, it became clear to methat each main cause and the related contributorscould easily be rearranged and still be fairly accurate.It was also surprising to realize that many of themain causes, in fact, were known and discussed abundantlybefore the crisis. However, no one predictedthat all of these issues would come together in theway that they did and create the largest financial andeconomic crisis of our lifetime.Even the more conservative of us, and I considermyself to be among them, looked at the past majorcrises (the 1974, 1982 and 1990 recessions; the 1987 and2001 market crashes) or some mix of them as the worstcaseevents for which we needed to be prepared. Weeven knew that the next one would be different – butwe missed the ferocity and magnitude that was lurkingbeneath. It also is possible that had this crisis playedout differently, the massive and multiple vicious cyclesof asset price reductions, a declining economy and ahousing price collapse all might have played out differently– either more benignly or more violently.It is critical to understand that the capital marketstoday are fundamentally different than they were afterWorld War II. This is not your grandfather’s economy.The role of banks in the capital markets has changedconsiderably. And this change is not well-understood – infact, it is fraught with misconceptions. Traditional banksnow provide only 20% of total lending in the economy(approximately $14 trillion of the total credit providedby all financial intermediaries). Right after World War II,that number was almost 60%. The other lending hasbeen provided by what many call the “shadow banking”system. “Shadow” implies nefarious and in the dark, butonly part of this shadow banking system was in the dark(i.e., SIVs and conduits) – the rest was right in front of us.Money market funds, which had grown to $4 trillion ofassets, directly lend to corporations by buying commercialpaper (they owned $700 billion of commercial paper).Bond funds, which had grown to approximately $2 trillion,also were direct buyers of corporate credit and securitizations.Securitizations, which came in many forms(including CDOs, collateralized loan obligations and commercial mortgage-backed securities), either directly orindirectly bought consumer and commercial loans. Assetsecuritizations simply were a conduit by which investmentand commercial banks passed the loans onto theultimate buyers.In the two weeks after the Lehman bankruptcy, moneymarket and bond funds withdrew approximately $700billion from the credit markets. They did this becauseinvestors (i.e., individuals and institutions) withdrewmoney from these funds. At the same time, bank lendingactually went up as corporations needed to increasinglyrely on their banks for lending. With this as abackdrop, let’s revisit the main causes of this crisis inmore detail.A. The burst of a major housing bubbleU.S. home prices have been appreciating for almost10 years – essentially doubling over that time. Whilesome appreciation is normal, the large appreciation,in this case, and the ultimate damage it caused werecompounded by the factors discussed below.New and poorly underwritten mortgage products(i.e., option ARMs, subprime mortgages) helped fuelasset appreciation, excessive speculation and far highercredit lossesAs the housing bubble grew, increasingly aggressiveunderwriting standards helped drive housing priceappreciation and market speculation to unprecedentedlevels. Poor underwriting standards (including little orno verification of income and loan-to-value ratios ashigh as 100%) and poorly designed new products (likeoption ARMs) contributed directly to the bubble andits disastrous aftermath.Mortgage securitization had two major flawsIn many securitizations, no one along the chain, fromoriginator to distributor, had ultimate responsibility forthe results of the underwriting. In addition, the poorlyconstructed tranches of securitizations that comprisedthese transactions effectively converted a large portionof poorly underwritten loans into Triple A-rated securities.Clearly, the rating agencies also played a key rolein this flawed process. These securitizations ended upin many forms; the one most discussed is CDOs.Essentially, these just added a lot more fuel to the fire.While most people are honorable, excess speculation anddishonesty were far greater than ever seen before, on thepart of both brokers and consumersThe combination of no-money-down mortgages, speculationon home prices, and some dishonest brokersand consumers who out-and-out lied will cause damagefor years to come. This, in no way, absolves the poorunderwriting judgments made by us and other institutions,and it certainly doesn’t absolve anyone whomis-sold loans to consumers.B. Excessive leverage pervaded the systemOver many years, consumers were adding to theirleverage (mostly as a function of the housing bubble),some commercial banks increased theirs, most of theU.S. investment banks dramatically increased theirsand many foreign banks had the most leverage of all.In addition, increasing leverage appeared in:• Hedge funds, many using high leverage, grew dramaticallyover time. Some of that leverage was theresult of global banks and investment banks lendingthem too much money.• Private equity firms were increasingly leveraging uptheir buyouts. Again, some banks and the capitalmarkets lent them too much money.• Some banks (and other entities) added to their leverageby using off-balance sheet arbitrage vehicles, likeSIVs and leveraged puts.• Nonbank entities, including mortgage banks, CDOmanagers, consumer and commercial finance companies,and even some bond funds, all increased theirleverage over time.• Even pension plans and universities added to theirleverage, often in effect, by making large “forward commitments.”Basically, the whole world was at the party, high onleverage – and enjoying it while it lasted. C. The dramatic growth of structural risks and theunanticipated damage they causedI believe there are four structural risks or imbalancesthat grew and coalesced to cause a “run on the bank.”But this was not a traditional bank run – it was a runon our capital markets, the likes of which we had neverexperienced. After Lehman’s bankruptcy, many partsof our capital markets system stopped providing anycapital to the market at all. If the crisis had unfoldeddifferently, then perhaps the events that followedwould not have occurred. Surely no one deliberatelybuilt a system with these fundamental flaws and imbalances.Clearer heads will understand that much of thiswas not malfeasance – our world had changed a lot andin ways that we didn’t understand the full potentialrisk. But when the panic started, it was too much forthe system to bear.Many structures increasingly allowed short-termfinancing to support illiquid assetsIn essence, too much longer-term, non-investmentgrade product was converted into shorter-term TripleA-rated product. Some banks, hedge funds, SIVs andCDOs were using short-term financing to support illiquid,long-term assets. When the markets froze, theseentities were unable to get short-term financing. As aresult, they were forced to sell these illiquid assets.One of the functions of banking and the capital marketsis to intermediate between the needs of investorsand issuers. This triggers a normal conversion, eitherdirectly or indirectly (through securitizations) oflonger-term, illiquid assets held by the issuers, whoneed to finance the business into the shorter-term,higher-grade product that most investors want. Clearly,over time, this imbalance had grown too large andunsupportable.Money market funds had a small structural risk, whichbecame a critical point of failureMoney market funds promise to pay back 100% to theinvestor on demand. Many money market funds investedin 30- to-180-day commercial paper or asset-backedsecurities that under typical circumstances could besold back at par. In normal times, investors demandedtheir money in fairly predictable ways, and funds wereable to meet their demands. Over time, money marketfunds grew dramatically to exceed $4 trillion. AfterLehman collapsed, one money fund in particular,which held a lot of Lehman paper, was unable to meetthe withdrawal demands. As word of that situationspread, investors in many funds responded by demandingtheir money. In a two-week period, investors pulled$500 billion from many money funds, which wereforced to sell assets aggressively. To raise liquidity,these money funds essentially were forced to sellassets. As investors moved away from credit funds andinto government funds, the banks simply were unableto make up the difference. This became one more hugerupture in the dike.Repo financing terms got too loose, and too many illiquidassets were repo’edOver time, in those markets where financial companiesfinanced their liquid assets, financial terms hadbecome too lax. For example, to buy non-agency mortgagesecurities, financial institutions only had to putup 2%-5% versus a more traditional 15%-25%. Therepo markets also had begun to finance fairly esotericsecurities, and when things got scary, they simplystopped doing so. In the two weeks after Lehman’sbankruptcy, more than $200 billion was removed fromthis type of financing, by both investors and banks.Once again, financial institutions had to liquidatesecurities to pay back short-term borrowing – thus,another rupture in the dike.Investors acted wisely to protect themselves, but the systemcouldn’t handle them all doing it at the same timeIndividual investors, corporations, pension plans, bondand loan funds, money market funds and others – allacted in their own self-interest, and all individuallyacted wisely. But collectively, they caused enormousflows out of the banking and credit system. Regardlessof whether the funds came out of a bank, a moneyfund, or a bond or loan fund, the fact remains that thecumulative result was a severe shortage of necessarycredit that was removed from the system. Clearly, things had changed. In the past, regulators hadfocused on preventing a systemic collapse of the mainintermediaries in the financial system; i.e., the banks.In this new world, however, we need to discuss how toprotect ourselves not only from runs on banks but alsofrom runs on other critical vehicles in the capital andfinancial markets.D. Regulatory lapses and mistakesWith great hesitation, I would like to point out thatmistakes also were made by the regulatory system.That said, I do not blame the regulators for what happened.In each and every circumstance, the responsibilityfor a company’s actions rests with us, the CEO andthe company’s management. Just because regulatorslet you do something, it does not mean you should doit. But regulators have a responsibility, too. And if weare ever to get this right, it is important to examinewhat the regulators could have done better. In manyinstances, good regulation could have prevented some ofthe problems. And had some of these problems not happened,perhaps things would not have gotten this bad.Unregulated or lightly regulated parts of the marketcontributed to the crisisI’ve already discussed some of the flaws with moneymarket funds and hedge funds – the latter were notregulated, and the former were lightly regulated. Inaddition, there are two large segments, among others,that – had they been regulated – could have helped thesystem avoid some problems.• Much of the mortgage business was largely unregulated.While the banks in this business were regulated,most mortgage brokers essentially were not. In fact,no major commercial bank that was regulated by theOCC wrote option ARMs (possibly the worst mortgageproduct). A very good argument could be madethat the lower standards of the unregulated parts ofthe business put a lot of pressure on those playersin the regulated part of the business to reduce theirstandards so they could compete. In this case, badregulation trumped good regulation.• Insurance regulators essentially missed the largeand growing one-sided credit insurance and creditderivative bets being made by AIG and the monolineinsurers. This allowed these companies to take hugeone-sided bets, in some cases, by insuring variouscomplex mortgage securities.Basel II, which was adopted by global banks and U.S.investment banks, allowed too much leverageIt is quite clear now that the second of the Accords bythe Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (knownas Basel II), published in 2004, was highly flawed. Itwas applied differently in different jurisdictions,allowed too much leverage, had an over-reliance onpublished credit ratings and failed to account for how acompany was being funded (i.e., it allowed too muchshort-term wholesale funding). In 2004, the five independentU.S. investment banks adopted Basel II underthe jurisdiction of the Securities and ExchangeCommission (this was not allowed by the banks regulatedby the Federal Reserve or the OCC, whichremained under Basel I). The investment banks jettisonedprior conservative net capital requirements andgreatly increased their leverage under Basel II. And therest is history.Perhaps the largest regulatory failure of all time was theinadequate regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie MacThe extraordinary growth and high leverage of FannieMae and Freddie Mac were well-known. Many talkedabout these issues, including their use of derivatives.Surprisingly, they had their own regulator, which clearlywas not up to the task. These government-sponsoredentities had grown to become larger than the FederalReserve. Both had dramatically increased their leverageover the last 20 years. And, amazingly, a situation wasallowed to exist where the very fundamental premiseof their credit was implicit, not explicit. This shouldnever happen again. Their collapse caused damage tothe mortgage markets and the financial system. And,had the Treasury not stepped in, it would have causeddamage to the credit of the United States itself. Too many regulators – with overlapping responsibilitiesand inadequate authorities – were ill-equipped to handlethe crisisOur current regulatory system is poorly organized andarchaic. Overlapping responsibilities have led to a diffusionof responsibility and an unproductive competitionamong regulators, which probably accelerated arace to the bottom. Many regulators also did not havethe appropriate statutory authority (through no faultof their own) to deal with some of the problems theywere about to face. One large, glaring example revealedby the collapse of Bear Stearns and Lehman was thelack of a resolution process in place to deal with failureof investment banks. If commercial banks fail, theFDIC can take them over. This was not the case withinvestment banks. In addition, a resolution processneeds to be in place for large, global financial companiesthat operate in many jurisdictions and use manydifferent regulatory licenses.E. The pro-cyclical nature of virtually all policies,actions and eventsIn a crisis, pro-cyclical policies make things worse. Icannot think of one single policy that acted as a counterbalanceto all of the pro-cyclical forces. Althoughregulation can go only so far in minimizing the impactof pro-cyclical forces in times of crisis, we still must beaware of the impact they have. For example:• Loan loss reserving causes reserves to be at theirlowest level right when things take a turn for theworse. Therefore, as a crisis unfolds, a bank not onlyfaces higher charge-offs but also has to add to itslevel of reserves, depleting precious capital.• Although we are proponents of fair value accountingin trading books (a lot of the mark-to-market lossesthat people complained about will end up being reallosses), we also recognize that market levels resultingfrom large levels of forced liquidations may notreflect underlying values. Certain applications offair value accounting can contribute to a downwardspiral where losses deplete capital, and lower capitalcauses people to respond by selling more, at increasinglylower values.• The rating agencies made mistakes (like the rest ofus) that clearly helped fuel a CDO and mortgagedebacle. They also, in the midst of a crisis, continuallydowngraded credits. Lower ratings, in turn,required many financial institutions to raise morecapital, thus adding to the vicious cycle.• In bad times, the market itself demands both anincrease in capital and more conservative lending.We may not be able to change this phenomenon,but there are steps we can take to ensure that thesystem is better prepared for it.• Financing arrangements allow the most leverage ingood times, but they force a dramatic reduction inleverage in bad times.• As capital markets volatility increases, Basel IIcapital calculations and many risk managementtools, like Value-at-Risk, demand that more capitalbe held to own securities or loans.F. The impact of huge trade and financing imbalanceson interest rates, consumption and speculationI suspect when analysts and economists study thefundamental causes of this crisis, they will point to theenormous U.S. trade deficit as one of the main underlyingculprits. Over an eight-year period, the UnitedStates ran a trade deficit of $3 trillion. This means thatAmericans bought $3 trillion more than they sold overseas.Dollars were used to pay for the goods. Foreigncountries took these dollars and purchased, for themost part, U.S. Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. It also is likely that this process kept U.S. interestrates very low, even beyond Federal Reserve policy, foran extended period of time. It is likely that this excessdemand also kept risk premiums (i.e., credit spreads)at an all-time low for an extended period of time. Lowinterest rates and risk premiums probably fueled excessiveleverage and speculation. Excess consumptioncould be financed cheaply. And adding fuel to the fire,in the summer of 2008, the United States had its thirdenergy crisis – further imbalancing capital flows.There have been times when large imbalances – such asthose in trade – sort themselves out without causingmassive global disruption. However, it is bad planningand wishful thinking to assume that this will always bethe case. These imbalances shouldn’t be allowed to getthat large – they create too much potential risk.Many other factors may have added to this storm – anexpensive war in Iraq, short-selling, high energy prices,and irrational pressure on corporations, money managersand hedge funds to show increasingly betterreturns. It also is clear that excessive, poorly designedand short-term oriented compensation practices addedto the problem by rewarding a lot of bad behavior.The modern financial world has had its first majorfinancial crisis. So far, many major actors are gone:many of the mortgage brokers, numerous hedge funds,Wachovia, WaMu, Bear Stearns, Lehman and manyothers. Some of the survivors are struggling, particularlyas we face a truly global, massive recession – and itstill is not over.IV. THE FUTURE OF OUR SYSTEMThe extent of the damage and the magnitude of thesystemic problems make it clear that our rules and regulationsmust be completely overhauled. Such changesto the regulatory system could have huge implicationson the long-term health, and strategies, of our business.While unprecedented actions have been taken by boththe Federal Reserve and the Treasury, my hope is thatnew policies are grounded in a thorough analysis of whathappened and what we need to do about it. Politicalagendas or simplistic views will not serve us well.Often we hear the debate around the need for moreor less regulation. What we need is better and moreforward-looking regulation. Someone has famously saidthat a crisis should not go to waste. But what is also trueis that it shouldn’t take a crisis to solve our problems.During a crisis, people panic. This can make it harder,not easier, to do the right thing. From our perspective,certain improvements would make a big difference. Wewould like to share with you some of our suggestions.A. The need for a systemic regulator with muchbroader authorityWe agree with our leaders in government that weshould move ahead quickly to establish a systemic regulator.In the short term, this would allow us to focusattention on correcting some underlying weaknessesin our system and filling the gaps in regulation thatcontributed to the current situation. It also is clear thatU.S. policy must be coordinated with the proper set ofinternational regulators. When the crisis emerged, theactions of individual countries had a critical impact onnumerous other countries. International coordinationis essential in resolving this kind of crisis.There should be procedures in place to deal withsystemically important institutions – failure is fineas long as it’s orderly and controlled and doesn’t causesystemic failureSize is not the issue; rather, it is when institutions aretoo interconnected that an uncontrolled failure has thepotential to bring the whole system down. What weneed is a resolution process that allows failure withoutcausing damage to the whole system. In the case of BearStearns or Lehman – both investment banks – regulatorsdid not have this protocol. They do have it, however,for commercial banks. Even more important, regulatorsare going to need a resolution process for large,global corporations that operate in many jurisdictionsaround the world.The first goal should be to regulate financial institutionsso they don’t fail. If they do fail, a proper resolutionprocess would ensure that action is swift, appropriateand consistent. The lack of consistency alonecaused great confusion in the marketplace. For example,when some of the recent failures took place, therewas inconsistent treatment among capital-holders (preferredstock and debt holders were treated very differentlyin different circumstances). It would have beenbetter if the regulators had a resolution process thatdefined, a priori, what forms of aid companies would getand what the impact would be on capital-holders. TheFDIC resolution process for banks provides a very goodexample of how a well-functioning process works.Various liquidity and “lender of last resort” facilities,like some of those put into place during this crisis, alsocould be in place on an a priori basis. These controlswould reduce risk and maximize confidence.Regulation needs to be administered by product andeconomic substance, not by legal entityWe have experienced the unintended consequences ofredundant regulation; i.e., different agencies regulatingthe same product in the mortgage business, in the derivativesbusiness and in lending overall. If, on the otherhand, similar products were overseen by a single regulator,that regulator would have much deeper knowledgeof the products and full information that extends acrossinstitutions. The “regulatory competition” that couldhave caused a race to the bottom would be eliminated.Hedge funds, private equity funds and off-balance sheetvehicles must be included in our regulatory apparatuswithout compromising their freedoms and positive attributesCertain vehicles like hedge funds and private equityfunds need to be regulated but only to protect the systemagainst risk. These vehicles do not need to be heavilyregulated like a deposit-gathering bank. We shouldconsider requiring hedge funds over a certain size(say, $1 billion of equity) to register, provide quarterlyaudited reports, disclose total leverage and certain riskattributes – like volatility and investment categories –and outline operational procedures. They also could berequired to show their regulators (not their competitors)any concentrated “trades” that could cause excessivesystemic risk. This all could be done without compromisingflexibility or disclosing confidential positionswhile allowing these vehicles to move capital –as freely and aggressively – as they see fit.The systemic regulator needs the ability to anticipate riskand do something about it if necessaryThere, undoubtedly, are financial products in the markettoday that – if unchecked – could have a destabilizingeffect. A systemic regulator, had it been closelywatching the mortgage industry, might have identifiedthe unregulated mortgage business as a critical pointof failure. This regulator also might have been able tolimit the leverage of Fannie and Freddie once theywere deemed to pose major systemic risks. Such aregulator might have been in the position to recognizethe one-sided credit derivative exposures of AIG andthe monoline insurers and do something about it.A systemic regulator also should be on the lookoutfor new or potential structural risks in our capitalmarkets, such as the structural flaw that grew inmoney market funds.B. The need to simplify our regulatory systemEveryone agrees that the existing system is fragmentedand overly complex. We have too many regulators andtoo many regulatory gaps. No one agency has access toall the relevant information. Responsibility often ishighly diffused. This problem could be relatively easyto fix but only if we have the political will to fix it.C. The need to regulate the mortgage business —including commercial mortgages — in its entiretyMany of the same gaps in regulation that helped leadus into this mess still exist today – for example, in the mortgage business. Mortgages are the largest financialproduct in the United States, and while we do not wantto squelch innovation, the entire mortgage businessclearly needs to be regulated. This is not the first timethat mortgages and real estate have led this countryand many of its financial institutions into deep trouble.Proper regulation would go a long way toward standardizingproducts, testing new ones, improving customerdisclosure and clarifying responsibility.D. The need to fix securitizationWe believe that securitization still is a highly effectiveway to finance assets. But some securitizations, particularlymortgage securitizations, had an enormous flawbuilt into them: No one was responsible for the actualquality of the underwriting. Even mortgage servicingcontracts were not standardized such that if somethingwent wrong, the customer would get consistent resolution.We cannot rely on market discipline (i.e., eliminatingbad practices) alone to fix this problem.We have heard several reasonable suggestions onhow the originator, packager and seller of securitizationscould be appropriately incentivized to ensure goodunderwriting. For example, requiring the relevant partiesto keep part of the securitizations, much like we do withsyndicated loans today, would help manage resolution ifsomething were to go wrong and could go a long way tore-establish market confidence and proper accountability.E. The need to fix Basel II — leading to higher capitalratios but a more stable systemAs discussed earlier, Basel II has many flaws – it hastaken too long to implement, it responds slowly tomarket changes and it is applied unevenly acrossglobal borders. Perhaps its worst failing is that, in itscurrent construct, Basel II does not include liquidity,which allowed commercial and investment banks tobuy liquid or illiquid assets and fund them short.While this practice did not appear quite so dangerousin benign times, it created huge issues for many financialinstitutions during the market crisis. Basel II alsohas relied too heavily on rating agencies and, by itsnature, has been highly pro-cyclical in its capitalrequirements for assets. It would be easy to make thesecapital requirements less pro-cyclical and require BaselII to recognize the risk of short-term funding, particularlythat of wholesale funding. Finally, Basel II shouldbe applied consistently, reviewed continuously andupdated regularly. The world changes quickly.F. The need to get accounting under controlWe at JPMorgan Chase are strong believers in good,conservative accounting. Accounting should alwaysreflect true underlying economics, which actually ishow we run the company. However, accounting practicesare not widely understood, are changed too frequentlyand are too susceptible to interpretation andmanipulation. Sometimes, they even inadvertentlydetermine U.S. government policy.We generally like fair value accountingFor assets that are bought and sold, fair value accountingcreates the best discipline. Fair value accounting(often referred to as mark-to-market accounting)already provides for some flexibility if recent prices areunder highly distressed conditions. In such cases, goodjudgment and sound fundamental cash flow-type evaluationscan be employed to value certain assets.However, in our opinion, the application of fair valueaccounting for certain categories needs to be reconsidered.For example:• We now have to mark to market our private equityinvestments by using potentially artificial benchmarks.These investments, by their nature, are veryilliquid and are intentionally held for several years.To mark them to market, proxies made up of comparablecompanies are used, and appropriate discountsand judgments are applied. Essentially, we writethese investments up when markets are good andwrite them down when markets are bad. But I amfairly confident that this approach is not alwaysright. In many instances, cost is the best proxy forfair value. We would rather describe our investmentsto our shareholders, tell them when we think theseinvestments might be worth more and, certainly,write them down on our financial statements whenthey have become impaired. A new mark-to-market rule addresses “debit valuationadjustments.” Essentially, we now have to markto market credit spreads on certain JPMorgan Chasebonds that we issue. For example, when bond spreadswiden on JPMorgan Chase debt, we actually canbook a gain. Of course, when these spreads narrow,we book a loss. The theory is interesting, but, inpractice, it is absurd. Taken to the extreme, if a companyis on its way to bankruptcy, it will be bookinghuge profits on its own outstanding debt, right upuntil it actually declares bankruptcy – at which pointit doesn’t matter.• It is becoming increasingly more difficult to comparemark-to-market values of certain instruments acrossdifferent companies. While it’s too involved to go intodetail here, different companies may account for similarmark-to-market assets differently. This needs to beaddressed by ensuring that companies adhere to consistentvaluation principles while applying the rules.• Fair value accounting does not and should not applyto all assets. Investments or certain illiquid assets thatare intended to be held for the longer term (like realestate or plant and equipment) or loans and certainassets that are shorter term (like receivables or inventory)all could actually be marked to market. Thereare, in fact, markets for some of these assets, and otherscould be calculated based on reasonable assumptions;for example, a farm would be worth morewhen corn prices go up, and a semiconductor plantwould be worth less when semiconductor prices godown. However, if we marked these assets in thisway, they would have wildly different prices dependingon the health of the economy or the swings inprices for their output. While accounting shouldrecognize the real impairment in the value of assets,marking the aforementioned assets to market everyday would be a waste of time. Under this scenario, itwould be quite hard for companies to invest in anythingilliquid or to make long-term investments.New accounting rules that have the potential toinadvertently affect how the capital markets functionor change fundamental long-term U.S. governmentpolicies should be made thoughtfully, deliberatelyand with broad inputFor example, we all believe that companies shouldhave fully funded pension plans; i.e., the actual assetsin the plan should be enough to meet a fair estimate ofthe liabilities. Years ago, if this wasn’t the case, companieswere allowed to maintain a “deficit” and fund itover several years. That deficit was not recorded on thefinancial statement of the company.A change in accounting rules dictated that the deficitshould not just be a footnote in the financial statementsbut that it should be reflected directly in theequity account of the corporation. Clearly, in very badmarkets, these deficits grow dramatically, thus depletingthe increasingly precious capital that companieshave. (This is just another example of a pro-cyclicalforce). When companies realized they were gettingenormous volatility in their capital account, they beganto curtail or eliminate their pension plans in favor of401(k) plans (where the individual bears all the investmentrisk). This was a rational, precautionary step. Butit, in effect, transferred the risk from the company tothe individual. No longer did the large corporationsassume the risk of providing a steady income stream toretired employees. Instead, the risk was passed to theindividuals – many of whom could not afford it.This is a perfect example of how accounting inadvertentlysets policy. And, in my opinion, this was probablythe wrong policy for the country. There would havebeen many ways to be true to the economic purposeof accounting without making a detrimental policychange. There are countless other examples, and wehope regulators and accountants will eventually findbetter ways to apply accounting principles.G. The need for appropriate counter-cyclical policiesDuring this crisis, it became evident that our systemcreated enormous pro-cyclical tendencies. In fact, Ican’t think of one counter-cyclical policy at all (otherthan emergency actions taken by the government). Accounting policies such as mark-to-market and loanloss reserving are pro-cyclical. Basel II capital requirementsare pro-cyclical. Regulatory and legal requirementsare pro-cyclical. Repo and short-term financingare pro-cyclical. The one pro-cyclical tendency weprobably can never correct is that of the market itself(i.e., the cost of capital goes way up in a downturn orinvestors refuse to finance less liquid assets). I haveheard many good ideas about how to create somecounter-cyclical policies and will focus on three here.Loan loss reserving can easily be made counter-cyclicalI find it absurd that loan loss reserves tend to be attheir lowest point precisely when things are about toget worse. As things get worse and charge-offs risedramatically, one must dramatically increase loan lossreserves, thus depleting capital rapidly. This problemwould be solved if banks were allowed to estimatecredit losses over the life of their loan portfolios.Reserves should be maintained to absorb those losses.This would enable banks to increase reserves whenlosses are low and utilize reserves when losses arehigh. Transparency would be fully preserved becauseinvestors and regulators would still see actual charge-offsand nonperformers. This would require a rationalexplanation about the appropriateness of the lifetimeloss estimates. It also would have the positive effect ofconstantly reminding CEOs, management teams andinvestors that bad times, in fact, do happen – and thatthey should be prepared for such events.Repo and short-term financing can easily be madecounter-cyclicalAll banks now have access to the standard financingfacilities for securities and loans via the FederalReserve (i.e., the Fed will lend a specific amount ofmoney against specific assets). A suggestion is this:If an institution provides financing to clients in excessof what the Fed would lend to the bank for the samesecurities, it would have to be disclosed to risk committeesand the company’s Board of Directors. The Fedthen would have two major tools to reduce leverageand in a way that is counter-cyclical – it could chargehigher capital costs to a bank when the bank is lendingmore than the Fed would lend or the Fed could reducethe amount it would lend to the banks. Market playerswould still be free to provide credit and leverage asthey see fit.Banks should have the ability to implement countercyclicalcapital raising with rapid rights offeringsBanks and possibly other companies would be aidedby having the ability to effect rights offerings at amoment’s notice. Regulations should facilitate suchofferings – with the proper disclosure – in a matter ofdays rather than weeks. This would allow a companyto raise capital and repair a balance sheet that mighthave been stretched by unanticipated market eventsand to do so in a manner that is fair and does notdilute the company’s existing shareholder base.H. The need for policies in health care, pensions,energy and the environment, infrastructure andeducation that will serve us well over timeBeyond the financial crisis, there are several importantissues that will dictate whether or not the UnitedStates will continue to thrive over the next century. Webelieve our nation can and should be able to providehealth care coverage for all. It is the right thing to do, itwill help us build a stronger nation, and, if done properlyand efficiently, we believe it ultimately will becheaper than the current course we are on. On energy,we now have experienced our third major crisis, andwe, as a nation, still have not executed a sensible long-termenergy policy. Again, we believe that done right,an energy policy could be economically efficient, creategreat innovation, reduce geopolitical tensions andimprove our environment. Similarly, we need toimprove our nation’s infrastructure and develop aneducation system that befits our heritage.We can’t fall into the trap of institutional sclerosis –now is the time to act. In the past, this nation hasshown the fortitude to work together to accomplishgreat things, and we need to do that again. For ourpart, we at JPMorgan Chase are doing everything wecan to be helpful to our leaders on all these issues. V. WHAT COMES NEXT FORJPMORGAN CHASEYour management team is deeply engaged and is actingwith extreme caution in navigating these unchartedwaters. The U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve havecontinued to take bold and dramatic action, as havecentral banks and governments around the world. Inthis next section, we will discuss some of the importantissues for JPMorgan Chase.A. Our leadership in mortgage modifications andsupport for the administration’s mortgage programsJPMorgan Chase is at the forefront of foreclosure preventionand mortgage modifications nationally. Ourforeclosure prevention efforts are intended to reachboth the $300 billion of loans that we own and the$1.2 trillion of investor-owned loans that we service.We already have helped keep 330,000 borrowers intheir homes and expect to help avert 650,000 foreclosuresby the end of 2010. We are committed tokeeping borrowers in their homes by making sustainable,properly written loan modifications, in manycases before a default occurs.We believe it is in the best interests of both the homeownerand the mortgage-holder to take correctiveaction as soon as possible. Our re-default rates are halfthe rates that the OCC has said are experienced bynational servicers. Re-default rates in the industrygenerally will come down once modifications aredone with proper underwriting and as the economyand home prices start to improve. If re-default rateswere extremely low, we probably should be doingmore modifications.We strongly support the Obama administration’smortgage modification program. The plan’s featuresare aligned with the program we already had implemented,extending them to more struggling homeownersand providing us and other servicers with moreoptions to keep families in their homes. We also supportthe program because the guidelines establish aclear, fair and consistent set of standards for all servicersto follow. It is intended for borrowers withmortgages below $729,750; and all borrowers mustfully document their income, clearly demonstratefinancial hardship and live in the home. We believe these mortgage modifications are economicallyand morally the right thing to do and that the programunderscores the importance of mutual respect – bytreating others in the way that we would like to be treatedin the same situation – while upholding the essentialprinciple that individuals, businesses and corporationsshould repay their loans if they can afford to do so. Inour view, its completeness eliminates the need for judicialmodification in bankruptcy proceedings. However,if legislated, judicial modifications should be consistentwith this plan and focus only on borrowers who eitherdon’t qualify or have not been offered a modification.Beyond that, it is time to quickly implement the mortgagemodification program – even if it is not perfect ineveryone’s view – and to move on.B. Comments on the derivatives businessDerivatives have become an essential and widely usedrisk management tool. The International Swaps andDerivatives Association estimates that 90% of theFortune 500, 50% of mid-sized companies and thousandsof other, smaller U.S. companies use derivativesto manage certain risks, including currency and interestrate risk. As such, derivatives are a large business forJPMorgan Chase and for firms around the world. It isimportant to note that derivatives in and of themselvesdid not cause this crisis. In fact, derivatives have performedfairly well in this crisis environment. However,it is clear that derivatives, at least in financial reporting,are hard to understand, lack transparency and did contributesomewhat to the crisis. At JPMorgan Chase, webelieve derivatives, when used properly, play an importantrole in managing risk, and we are trying to addressthe concerns about derivatives.• We have been standard setters in bringing moretransparency to our financial reporting and willcontinue to be. In this report, you will find extensivedetails on our counterparty exposures and other riskconsiderations that are central to understanding ourderivatives and other trading businesses.• Some of the concerns about derivatives have to dowith the large notional amounts. But those figuresare reference measurements and do not reflect actual counterparty credit risk. Actual risk is the mark-to-market value of the contract after taking intoaccount netting of risk across all transactions witha counterparty, collateral and hedging. Actual riskprojections also take into account the potentialfuture exposure coming from market moves.• Our counterparty exposures net of collateral andhedges are $133 billion, and the company managesthose exposures name by name – like a hawk. Thefigure is large, but we get paid to take the risks, wereserve and account for them conservatively, and wemanage them in conjunction with all of our othercredit exposures.• As the overall amount of counterparty credit riskhas grown, so has the concern that this growth hasincreased systemic risk. To address this issue, wesupport the development of clearinghouses, whichwe believe will reduce the counterparty risk andincrease transparency for standardized contracts. Wealready clear a significant portion of our interest rateand commodities derivatives through clearinghouses,and we have been active in the development of aclearinghouse for credit default swaps. Those derivativesthat are too customized to be cleared can easilybe monitored by regulators to ensure they do notcause systemic risk.• AIG’s downfall wasn’t due to its use of derivativesper se but to its poor risk management practices.The insurer took concentrated risks through creditdefault swaps insuring mortgage-related assets. Onthe other side of the equation, some dealers boughtthis insurance from AIG without requiring them topost collateral until such time as their credit ratingdeteriorated. This is a case where bad risk managementon the part of AIG was compounded by badcounterparty risk management by AIG’s counterparties.The potential systemic impact was substantial.JPMorgan Chase did business with AIG, but, in linewith our general policies, we kept our credit exposurerelatively small so that our firm would not becompromised if AIG had been allowed to fail. Withhindsight, the problem itself could have been bettercontained and dramatically mitigated had AIG beenproperly regulated and required to provide collateral(to a clearinghouse or its counterparties).• There are regulatory gaps that need serious attention,as was evident with AIG. A way to prevent afuture AIG is by empowering a systemic risk regulator(as described earlier). Such a regulator wouldhave been in a position to see the risk piling up andaddress it before the company failed.• Recognizing upfront profits for derivative transactionscan be problematic. Even though it is not standardaccounting, we believe the profits relating tothe risk positions associated with derivatives shouldbe booked over the life of the transaction, proportionateto the risk remaining.With proper management, systemic risks created byderivatives can be dramatically reduced without compromisingthe ability of companies to use them inmanaging their exposures.C. The reasons for maintaining a fortress balancesheet and cutting the dividendMaintaining a fortress balance sheet will always beessential to us. Our Tier 1 ratio is 10.9%, with tangiblecommon equity of $81 billion, and we will continue toincrease our loan loss reserves, as appropriate. With$24 billion in allowance for credit losses at the end of2008, we believe our loan loss reserves across all ourbusinesses are among the strongest in the industry.Out of an abundance of caution to be prepared for thefuture during this uncertain environment, we believedit was prudent to reduce our quarterly dividend from$0.38 to $0.05 per share, effective with our next scheduleddividend payment.We did not take this action lightly, and we recognizeour tremendous obligation to shareholders to seek tomaintain dividend levels. But extraordinary timesrequire extraordinary measures. So while our performanceand capital are solid, we have an even higherobligation to ensure that our fortress balance sheetremains intact. This will enable us to stay flexible toseize opportunities and continue to build and invest inour market-leading businesses, even in a highlystressed environment.We maintain a long-term commitment to the dividendand still view a 30%-40% payout ratio of normalizedearnings as ultimately reasonable. We will continueto review all relevant criteria to ensure the ongoingstrength of our capital base and will await a more stableeconomic environment before increasing the dividend.D. Comments on TARPWhile the decision to reduce our dividend was notdirectly related to accepting TARP, it does provide uswith additional capital – about $5 billion per year –which could position us to repay TARP funds soonerthan otherwise would have been possible. We, of course,would do this in consultation with our regulators.Many people would like us to repay the TARP fundsas soon as we can; some are angry over the changinggovernment conditions relating to the acceptance ofTARP funds; and some would like to see swift repaymentas a matter of principle.The reason we accepted TARP still stands – we believedit was in the best interests of the United States and thebanking system overall. We will not react capriciouslyor out of anger in determining when to repay theTARP funds. We will repay them only if doing so isconsistent with the best interests of our country andour company.E. The impact of a deep recession, and thegovernment’s stress testWe have been forthright and consistent in letting ourshareholders know that a recession will impact ourfinancial results, a severe recession even more so. Andthat’s if we do everything right. Last year, we notedthat the recession would have a significant impacton credit and that in a difficult environment, “creditlosses could rise significantly, by as much as $5 billionover time, which would require increases in loan lossreserves.” Managed net charge-offs were $13 billion in2008, up from $7 billion in 2007. Our current view isthat 2009 charge-offs will be even higher.The recession will ripple through and affect all of ourconsumer and commercial credit exposures – someworse than others. In addition to higher charge-offs, itwill require substantial additions to reserves, which wehave increased from $10 billion at the end of 2007 to$24 billion at the end of 2008. We already said lastyear how bad we thought mortgage and home equitylosses might get, and, unfortunately, they have becomeeven worse. The severity of this recession also couldhave a dramatic impact on credit card losses; we nowexpect a 9% unemployment rate to lead to charge-offsof higher than 9%. (In the past, we would expectunemployment of 9% to lead to charge-offs of 7% ormore. Now, however, we believe that the combinedeffect of unemployment with the major housing downturnwill lead to a higher charge-off rate.)The Treasury, in conjunction with the OCC, FDIC andFederal Reserve, has launched a stress test program toensure that the 19 largest banks (those with more than$100 billion in assets) have the capacity to remainproperly capitalized in a highly stressed environment.The government’s adverse economic environmentenvisions a two-year recession, where unemploymentreaches 10.4% and the housing price index declines48% from peak to trough. While some banks may needadditional capital or support, a successful completionof the stress test program should eliminate the need toguess which banks are properly capitalized and whichare not. In the best case, it will affirm the banks’ capital,accounting and reserve ratios, which will removeuncertainty in the marketplace and increase financialstability. (Unfortunately, the announcement of thestress test, which is expected to be presented in lateApril, is causing enormous consternation in the marketsthat would have been better to avoid.)We regularly do stress tests for our company, alwaysprojecting forward our capital and liquidity. We thinkour capital ratios will maintain their extremely stronglevels throughout the government’s “adverse economicenvironment.”You also should know that your company will beprepared for an environment even worse than the onejust described.F. Recent government actions and the potentialpower of concerted effortsGovernments around the world have taken dramaticactions during this crisis. The Federal Reserve andTreasury of the United States have provided $5 trillionof liquidity facilities to finance various types ofassets and – to stabilize individual companies and theoverall system – have guaranteed almost $1 trillion ofassets on the balance sheets of certain institutionsand injected $1 trillion of capital into the financialsystem. In addition, the government is trying toreduce the mortgage rate by buying mortgages,making it easier to refinance; reducing consumerpayments; and aggressively pushing mortgagemodification programs. We believe the recent TermAsset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALFprogram, which allows private investors to get nonrecoursefinancing on asset-backed securities, willaid the securitization markets. This program eventuallymay lend up to $1 trillion to finance new securitizedloans. It can also be modified and extendedas appropriate. It should be noted that many of thegovernment’s programs are not only replacing banklending but are also filling the gaps left by many ofthe nonbank lenders in the capital markets.We know that these government actions will haveunintended consequences and can lead to politicalinterference and that we will need to remove theseforms of support over time, intelligently. All theseconcerns add to our worries, particularly about potentialfuture inflation, but we’ll reserve such a discussionfor another time.There is no silver bullet: We believe that all of theseactions, if implemented properly and executed – in atimely way and in conjunction with the U.S. fiscalstimulus program – could have an enormous positiveimpact. The sum of the parts can be a lot more powerfulthan each individual action.We see that the largest global economic downturn isbeing met with massive global government actions –and while the specific outcome is uncertain, there isgood reason to think that the governments will eventuallywin.This country has had its defining moments: the CivilWar; the Great Depression; World War II. This mayalso be one of them. President Abraham Lincoln said,“A house divided against itself cannot stand.” Just asour military acts in concert – across the Army, Navy,Air Force and Marines, under one commander-in-chief– now, so too, should we. This means coordinationacross the House and Senate, Democrats and Republicans.If we rise to the challenge now, we will prevail. Vl. GETTING COMPENSATION RIGHTIS CRITICALLooking back at last year, I continue to reflect on howproud I am of the people in this company. It often isin the toughest of times that one learns what peopleare really made of. Our employees worked harder thanever and performed admirably for the company, forour clients and even for our country under enormouslychallenging conditions. Throughout the unexpectedevents and incredible pressure of 2008, it was hardnot to be impressed by the intellect, work ethic andstrength of character of the individuals at this firm.I know many Americans are concerned about compensationpractices across the financial services industry,and many of the concerns are quite legitimate. AtJPMorgan Chase, we believe we have been at the forefrontof sensible compensation practices. Our processis disciplined and rigorous, and we have always soughtto reward the long-term performance of our employees.Our practices reflect this:• We pay our people for performing well over multipleyears and for helping to build a company withlong-term, sustainable performance.• In looking at performance, we always try to properlyaccount for risk being taken. We are also mindfulthat a rising tide lifts all boats, and we do not wantto pay people on that basis.• Performance to us has never been simply a financialmeasure. It has always included the broader contributiona person brings to a company, such as maintainingintegrity and compliance; recruiting andtraining a diverse, outstanding workforce; and buildingbetter systems and innovation.• We have had in place a bonus recoupment policybeyond that required by Sarbanes-Oxley.• We don’t have: change-of-control agreements, specialexecutive retirement plans, golden parachutes,special severance packages for senior executivesor merger bonuses. We have always paid a significant percentage ofour incentive compensation in stock, approximately50% for our senior management team. That stockvests over multiple years.• Our senior management team generally must retainand hold approximately 75% of all stock everreceived from the company.There are a lot of legitimate complaints about compensation– not just at financial firms but at all types ofcompanies. Good companies know that compensationcan cause bad incentives. They know there is no magicto a calendar year and that they must be careful not topay people too much in a current year – due to eitherexuberance or real market pressures. Compensation isone of the most complex issues we deal with becauseit is important to the individuals and the company.Improperly done, it can destroy a company. We strivemightily to hire, train and retain the best talent –smart, ethical, hard-working, entrepreneurial individuals– and getting compensation right is a critical partof this process. VII. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYWe believe we have a deep responsibility to you, ourshareholders, and to our creditors, our clients and allour employees. We work incredibly hard to uphold allour obligations every day.Our commitment to corporate citizenshipWe have always been deeply committed to being goodcorporate citizens. It is an essential part of what wedo – and who we are – as a firm. As such, we haveintensified our corporate responsibility efforts, directingresources to make a meaningful difference to thepeople who live and work in the communities inwhich we operate.While some may think of us as a Wall Street firm, wealso are very much a part of Main Street: We employ225,000 people worldwide in 48 U.S. states and morethan 60 countries. Our 5,000 branches serve customersin 23 states. We provide health care coverage for400,000 people. On average, we pay more than $10billion a year in taxes to the U.S. government, as wellas to state and local jurisdictions.Last year alone, our firm and our Foundation madecharitable contributions of approximately $100 millionin our markets across the United States. And over thepast five years, we have given more than $600 millionto 13,500 organizations globally. These tremendouslyimportant investments help inner-city young adultsget jobs, fund educational programs, build affordablehousing and support rebuilding efforts after a tsunami,earthquake or hurricane hits one of our global communities.Our people are devoted to the communities theyserve – and, in a mutually beneficial relationship, wethrive when those communities are healthy, secureand prosperous.The Way Forward: Stepping up our gameWe strive to help our clients and our customers inevery way – and especially during these difficult times.This overall effort, part of an initiative called The WayForward, represents our commitment to the actions wehave taken and are willing to take to move Americaand the global economy forward. Throughout our history, we have always believed thatour obligation extends beyond simply serving shareholders,clients and employees. For us, public servicemeans working with government officials, in a nonpartisanway, to fully identify, analyze and overcome ourproblems. We believe the right solutions come onlywhen we participate in a constructive dialogue, getbeyond the words, “It’s not politically feasible,” andtake bold steps.Ensuring the health and vibrancy of this company for thenext 200 years is paramountThe real measure of strength for a country – or acompany – is not whether we have problems but howwe learn from them, overcome them and emerge betterfor it. For more than 200 years, the world has turnedto JPMorgan Chase in times of difficulty and turmoil,counting on our people to support our country, ourclients and our communities around the world. Wefeel that obligation more intensely than ever and arefocused on doing everything in our power to makesure this company remains strong, healthy and vibrantso that it can continue to do what it does best for thenext 200 years.Jamie DimonChairman and Chief Executive OfficerMarch 23, 2009