THE TWO NOBLE KINSMEN:Presented at the Blackfriersby the Kings Maiesties servants,with great applause:Written by the memorable Worthies of their time;Mr. John Fletcher, Gent., andMr. William Shakspeare, Gent.Printed at London by Tho. Cotes, for John Waterson:and are to be sold at the signe of the Crownein Pauls Church-yard. 1634.(The Persons represented in the Play.Hymen,Theseus,Hippolita, Bride to TheseusEmelia, Sister to Theseus[Emelia's Woman],Nymphs,Three Queens,Three valiant Knights,Palamon, andArcite, The two Noble Kinsmen, in love with fair Emelia[Valerius],Perithous,[A Herald],[A Gentleman],[A Messenger],[A Servant],[Wooer],[Keeper],Jaylor,His Daughter, in love with Palamon[His brother],[A Doctor],[4] Countreymen,[2 Friends of the Jaylor],[3 Knights],[Nel, and other]Wenches,A Taborer,Gerrold, A Schoolmaster.)PROLOGVE.[Florish.]New Playes, and Maydenheads, are neare a kin,Much follow'd both, for both much mony g'yn,If they stand sound, and well: And a good Play(Whose modest Sceanes blush on his marriage day,And shake to loose his honour) is like hirThat after holy Tye and first nights stirYet still is Modestie, and still retainesMore of the maid to sight, than Husbands paines;We pray our Play may be so; For I am sureIt has a noble Breeder, and a pure,A learned, and a Poet never wentMore famous yet twixt Po and silver Trent:Chaucer (of all admir'd) the Story gives,There constant to Eternity it lives.If we let fall the Noblenesse of this,And the first sound this child heare, be a hisse,How will it shake the bones of that good man,And make him cry from under ground, 'O fanFrom me the witles chaffe of such a wrighterThat blastes my Bayes, and my fam'd workes makes lighterThen Robin Hood!'  This is the feare we bring;For to say Truth, it were an endlesse thing,And too ambitious, to aspire to him,Weake as we are, and almost breathlesse swimIn this deepe water.  Do but you hold outYour helping hands, and we shall take about,And something doe to save us: You shall heareSceanes, though below his Art, may yet appeareWorth two houres travell.  To his bones sweet sleepe:Content to you.  If this play doe not keepeA little dull time from us, we perceaveOur losses fall so thicke, we must needs leave.  [Florish.]Actus Primus.[Scaena 1.]  (Athens.  Before a temple.)[Enter Hymen with a Torch burning: a Boy, in a white Robe before singing, and strewing Flowres: After Hymen, a Nimph, encompastin her Tresses, bearing a wheaten Garland.  Then Theseus betweene two other Nimphs with wheaten Chaplets on their heades.  Then Hipolita the Bride, lead by Pirithous, and another holding a Garland over her head (her Tresses likewise hanging.)  After her Emilia holding up her Traine.  (Artesius and Attendants.)]The Song,  [Musike.]Roses their sharpe spines being gon,Not royall in their smels alone,But in their hew.Maiden Pinckes, of odour faint,Dazies smel-lesse, yet most quaintAnd sweet Time true.Prim-rose first borne child of Ver,Merry Spring times Herbinger,With her bels dimme.Oxlips, in their Cradles growing,Mary-golds, on death beds blowing,Larkes-heeles trymme.All deere natures children sweete,Ly fore Bride and Bridegroomes feete,  [Strew Flowers.]Blessing their sence.Not an angle of the aire,Bird melodious, or bird faire,Is absent hence.The Crow, the slaundrous Cuckoe, norThe boding Raven, nor Chough horeNor chattring Pie,May on our Bridehouse pearch or sing,Or with them any discord bring,But from it fly.[Enter 3. Queenes in Blacke, with vailes staind, with imperiall Crownes.  The 1. Queene fals downe at the foote of Theseus; The 2. fals downe at the foote of Hypolita.  The 3. before Emilia.]1. QUEEN.For pitties sake and true gentilities,Heare, and respect me.2. QUEEN.For your Mothers sake,And as you wish your womb may thrive with faire ones,Heare and respect me.3. QUEENNow for the love of him whom Iove hath markdThe honour of your Bed, and for the sakeOf cleere virginity, be AdvocateFor us, and our distresses.  This good deedeShall raze you out o'th Booke of TrespassesAll you are set downe there.THESEUS.Sad Lady, rise.HIPPOLITA.Stand up.EMILIA.No knees to me.What woman I may steed that is distrest,Does bind me to her.THESEUS.What's your request?  Deliver you for all.1. QUEEN.We are 3. Queenes, whose Soveraignes fel beforeThe wrath of cruell Creon; who enduredThe Beakes of Ravens, Tallents of the Kights,And pecks of Crowes, in the fowle feilds of Thebs.He will not suffer us to burne their bones,To urne their ashes, nor to take th' offenceOf mortall loathsomenes from the blest eyeOf holy Phoebus, but infects the windesWith stench of our slaine Lords.  O pitty, Duke:Thou purger of the earth, draw thy feard SwordThat does good turnes to'th world; give us the BonesOf our dead Kings, that we may Chappell them;And of thy boundles goodnes take some noteThat for our crowned heades we have no roofe,Save this which is the Lyons, and the Beares,And vault to every thing.THESEUS.Pray you, kneele not:I was transported with your Speech, and suffer'dYour knees to wrong themselves; I have heard the fortunesOf your dead Lords, which gives me such lamentingAs wakes my vengeance, and revenge for'em,King Capaneus was your Lord: the dayThat he should marry you, at such a season,As now it is with me, I met your Groome,By Marsis Altar; you were that time faire,Not Iunos Mantle fairer then your Tresses,Nor in more bounty spread her.  Your wheaten wreatheWas then nor threashd, nor blasted; Fortune at youDimpled her Cheeke with smiles: Hercules our kinesman(Then weaker than your eies) laide by his Club,He tumbled downe upon his Nemean hideAnd swore his sinews thawd: O greife, and time,Fearefull consumers, you will all devoure.1. QUEEN.O, I hope some God,Some God hath put his mercy in your manhoodWhereto heel infuse powre, and presse you forthOur undertaker.THESEUS.O no knees, none, Widdow,Vnto the Helmeted Belona use them,And pray for me your Souldier.Troubled I am.  [turnes away.]2. QUEEN.Honoured Hypolita,Most dreaded Amazonian, that hast slaineThe Sith-tuskd Bore; that with thy Arme as strongAs it is white, wast neere to make the maleTo thy Sex captive, but that this thy Lord,Borne to uphold Creation in that honourFirst nature stilde it in, shrunke thee intoThe bownd thou wast ore-flowing, at once subduingThy force, and thy affection: SoldiresseThat equally canst poize sternenes with pitty,Whom now I know hast much more power on himThen ever he had on thee, who ow'st his strengthAnd his Love too, who is a Servant forThe Tenour of thy Speech: Deere Glasse of Ladies,Bid him that we, whom flaming war doth scortch,Vnder the shaddow of his Sword may coole us:Require him he advance it ore our heades;Speak't in a womans key: like such a womanAs any of us three; weepe ere you faile;Lend us a knee;But touch the ground for us no longer timeThen a Doves motion, when the head's pluckt off:Tell him if he i'th blood cizd field lay swolne,Showing the Sun his Teeth, grinning at the Moone,What you would doe.HIPPOLITA.Poore Lady, say no more:I had as leife trace this good action with youAs that whereto I am going, and never yetWent I so willing way.  My Lord is takenHart deepe with your distresse: Let him consider:Ile speake anon.3. QUEEN.O my petition was  [kneele to Emilia.]Set downe in yce, which by hot greefe uncandiedMelts into drops, so sorrow, wanting forme,Is prest with deeper matter.EMILIA.Pray stand up,Your greefe is written in your cheeke.3. QUEEN.O woe,You cannot reade it there, there through my teares--Like wrinckled peobles in a glassie streameYou may behold 'em.  Lady, Lady, alacke,He that will all the Treasure know o'th earthMust know the Center too; he that will fishFor my least minnow, let him lead his lineTo catch one at my heart.  O pardon me:Extremity, that sharpens sundry wits,Makes me a Foole.EMILIA.Pray you say nothing, pray you:Who cannot feele nor see the raine, being in't,Knowes neither wet nor dry: if that you wereThe ground-peece of some Painter, I would buy youT'instruct me gainst a Capitall greefe indeed--Such heart peirc'd demonstration; but, alas,Being a naturall Sifter of our SexYour sorrow beates so ardently upon me,That it shall make a counter reflect gainstMy Brothers heart, and warme it to some pitty,Though it were made of stone: pray, have good comfort.THESEUS.Forward to'th Temple, leave not out a IotO'th sacred Ceremony.1. QUEEN.O, This CelebrationWill long last, and be more costly thenYour Suppliants war: Remember that your FameKnowles in the eare o'th world: what you doe quicklyIs not done rashly; your first thought is moreThen others laboured meditance: your premeditatingMore then their actions: But, oh Iove! your actions,Soone as they mooves, as Asprayes doe the fish,Subdue before they touch: thinke, deere Duke, thinkeWhat beds our slaine Kings have.2. QUEEN.What greifes our beds,That our deere Lords have none.3. QUEEN.None fit for 'th dead:Those that with Cordes, Knives, drams precipitance,Weary of this worlds light, have to themselvesBeene deathes most horrid Agents, humaine graceAffords them dust and shaddow.1. QUEEN.But our LordsLy blistring fore the visitating Sunne,And were good Kings, when living.THESEUS.It is true, and I will give you comfort,To give your dead Lords graves: the which to doe,Must make some worke with Creon.1. QUEEN.And that worke presents it selfe to'th doing:Now twill take forme, the heates are gone to morrow.Then, booteles toyle must recompence it selfeWith it's owne sweat; Now he's secure,Not dreames we stand before your puissanceWrinching our holy begging in our eyesTo make petition cleere.2. QUEEN.Now you may take him, drunke with his victory.3. QUEEN.And his Army full of Bread, and sloth.THESEUS.Artesius, that best knowestHow to draw out fit to this enterpriseThe prim'st for this proceeding, and the numberTo carry such a businesse, forth and levyOur worthiest Instruments, whilst we despatchThis grand act of our life, this daring deedeOf Fate in wedlocke.1. QUEEN.Dowagers, take hands;Let us be Widdowes to our woes: delayCommends us to a famishing hope.ALL.Farewell.2. QUEEN.We come unseasonably: But when could greefeCull forth, as unpanged judgement can, fit'st timeFor best solicitation.THESEUS.Why, good Ladies,This is a service, whereto I am going,Greater then any was; it more imports meThen all the actions that I have foregone,Or futurely can cope.1. QUEEN.The more proclaimingOur suit shall be neglected: when her ArmesAble to locke Iove from a Synod, shallBy warranting Moone-light corslet thee, oh, whenHer twyning Cherries shall their sweetnes fallVpon thy tastefull lips, what wilt thou thinkeOf rotten Kings or blubberd Queenes, what careFor what thou feelst not? what thou feelst being ableTo make Mars spurne his Drom.  O, if thou couchBut one night with her, every howre in't willTake hostage of thee for a hundred, andThou shalt remember nothing more then whatThat Banket bids thee too.HIPPOLITA.Though much unlike  [Kneeling.]You should be so transported, as much sorryI should be such a Suitour; yet I thinke,Did I not by th'abstayning of my joy,Which breeds a deeper longing, cure their surfeitThat craves a present medcine, I should pluckeAll Ladies scandall on me.  Therefore, Sir,As I shall here make tryall of my prayres,Either presuming them to have some force,Or sentencing for ay their vigour dombe:Prorogue this busines we are going about, and hangYour Sheild afore your Heart, about that neckeWhich is my ffee, and which I freely lendTo doe these poore Queenes service.ALL QUEENS.Oh helpe now,Our Cause cries for your knee.EMILIA.If you grant not  [Kneeling.]My Sister her petition in that force,With that Celerity and nature, whichShee makes it in, from henceforth ile not dareTo aske you any thing, nor be so hardyEver to take a Husband.THESEUS.Pray stand up.I am entreating of my selfe to doeThat which you kneele to have me.  Pyrithous,Leade on the Bride; get you and pray the GodsFor successe, and returne; omit not any thingIn the pretended Celebration.  Queenes,Follow your Soldier.  As before, hence you  [to Artesius]And at the banckes of Aulis meete us withThe forces you can raise, where we shall findeThe moytie of a number, for a businesMore bigger look't.  Since that our Theame is haste,I stamp this kisse upon thy currant lippe;Sweete, keepe it as my Token.  Set you forward,For I will see you gone.  [Exeunt towards the Temple.]Farewell, my beauteous Sister: Pyrithous,Keepe the feast full, bate not an howre on't.PERITHOUS.Sir,Ile follow you at heeles; The Feasts solempnityShall want till your returne.THESEUS.Cosen, I charge youBoudge not from Athens; We shall be returningEre you can end this Feast, of which, I pray you,Make no abatement; once more, farewell all.1. QUEEN.Thus do'st thou still make good the tongue o'th world.2. QUEEN.And earnst a Deity equal with Mars.3. QUEEN.If not above him, forThou being but mortall makest affections bendTo Godlike honours; they themselves, some say,Grone under such a Mastry.THESEUS.As we are men,Thus should we doe; being sensually subdude,We loose our humane tytle.  Good cheere, Ladies.  [Florish.]Now turne we towards your Comforts.  [Exeunt.]Scaena 2.  (Thebs).[Enter Palamon, and Arcite.]ARCITE.Deere Palamon, deerer in love then BloodAnd our prime Cosen, yet unhardned inThe Crimes of nature; Let us leave the CittyThebs, and the temptings in't, before we furtherSully our glosse of youth:And here to keepe in abstinence we shameAs in Incontinence; for not to swimI'th aide o'th Current were almost to sincke,At least to frustrate striving, and to followThe common Streame, twold bring us to an EdyWhere we should turne or drowne; if labour through,Our gaine but life, and weakenes.PALAMON.Your adviceIs cride up with example: what strange ruinsSince first we went to Schoole, may we perceiveWalking in Thebs?  Skars, and bare weedesThe gaine o'th Martialist, who did propoundTo his bold ends honour, and golden Ingots,Which though he won, he had not, and now flurtedBy peace for whom he fought: who then shall offerTo Marsis so scornd Altar? I doe bleedeWhen such I meete, and wish great Iuno wouldResume her ancient fit of IelouzieTo get the Soldier worke, that peace might purgeFor her repletion, and retaine anewHer charitable heart now hard, and harsherThen strife or war could be.ARCITE.Are you not out?Meete you no ruine but the Soldier inThe Cranckes and turnes of Thebs? you did beginAs if you met decaies of many kindes:Perceive you none, that doe arowse your pittyBut th'un-considerd Soldier?PALAMON.Yes, I pittyDecaies where ere I finde them, but such mostThat, sweating in an honourable Toyle,Are paide with yce to coole 'em.ARCITE.Tis not thisI did begin to speake of: This is vertueOf no respect in Thebs; I spake of ThebsHow dangerous if we will keepe our Honours,It is for our resyding, where every evillHath a good cullor; where eve'ry seeming good'sA certaine evill, where not to be ev'n IumpeAs they are, here were to be strangers, andSuch things to be, meere Monsters.PALAMON.Tis in our power,(Vnlesse we feare that Apes can Tutor's) toBe Masters of our manners: what neede IAffect anothers gate, which is not catchingWhere there is faith, or to be fond uponAnothers way of speech, when by mine owneI may be reasonably conceiv'd; sav'd too,Speaking it truly? why am I boundBy any generous bond to follow himFollowes his Taylor, haply so long untillThe follow'd make pursuit? or let me know,Why mine owne Barber is unblest, with himMy poore Chinne too, for tis not Cizard iustTo such a Favorites glasse: What Cannon is thereThat does command my Rapier from my hipTo dangle't in my hand, or to go tip toeBefore the streete be foule?  Either I amThe fore-horse in the Teame, or I am noneThat draw i'th sequent trace: these poore sleight soresNeede not a plantin; That which rips my bosomeAlmost to'th heart's--ARCITE.Our Vncle Creon.PALAMON.He,A most unbounded Tyrant, whose successesMakes heaven unfeard, and villany assuredBeyond its power there's nothing, almost putsFaith in a feavour, and deifies aloneVoluble chance; who onely attributesThe faculties of other InstrumentsTo his owne Nerves and act; Commands men service,And what they winne in't, boot and glory; on(e)That feares not to do harm; good, dares not; LetThe blood of mine that's sibbe to him be sucktFrom me with Leeches; Let them breake and fallOff me with that corruption.ARCITE.Cleere spirited Cozen,Lets leave his Court, that we may nothing shareOf his lowd infamy: for our milkeWill relish of the pasture, and we mustBe vile or disobedient, not his kinesmenIn blood, unlesse in quality.PALAMON.Nothing truer:I thinke the Ecchoes of his shames have dea'ftThe eares of heav'nly Iustice: widdows cryesDescend againe into their throates, and have not[enter Valerius.]Due audience of the Gods.--Valerius!VALERIUS.The King cals for you; yet be leaden footed,Till his great rage be off him.  Phebus, whenHe broke his whipstocke and exclaimd againstThe Horses of the Sun, but whisperd tooThe lowdenesse of his Fury.PALAMON.Small windes shake him:But whats the matter?VALERIUS.Theseus (who where he threates appals,) hath sentDeadly defyance to him, and pronouncesRuine to Thebs; who is at hand to sealeThe promise of his wrath.ARCITE.Let him approach;But that we feare the Gods in him, he brings notA jot of terrour to us; Yet what manThirds his owne worth (the case is each of ours)When that his actions dregd with minde assurdTis bad he goes about?PALAMON.Leave that unreasond.Our services stand now for Thebs, not Creon,Yet to be neutrall to him were dishonour;Rebellious to oppose: therefore we mustWith him stand to the mercy of our Fate,Who hath bounded our last minute.ARCITE.So we must.Ist sed this warres a foote? or it shall be,On faile of some condition?VALERIUS.Tis in motionThe intelligence of state came in the instantWith the defier.PALAMON.Lets to the king, who, were heA quarter carrier of that honour whichHis Enemy come in, the blood we ventureShould be as for our health, which were not spent,Rather laide out for purchase: but, alas,Our hands advanc'd before our hearts, what willThe fall o'th stroke doe damage?ARCITE.Let th'event,That never erring Arbitratour, tell usWhen we know all our selves, and let us followThe becking of our chance.  [Exeunt.]Scaena 3.  (Before the gates of Athens.)[Enter Pirithous, Hipolita, Emilia.]PERITHOUS.No further.HIPPOLITA.Sir, farewell; repeat my wishesTo our great Lord, of whose succes I dare notMake any timerous question; yet I wish himExces and overflow of power, and't might be,To dure ill-dealing fortune: speede to him,Store never hurtes good Gouernours.PERITHOUS.Though I knowHis Ocean needes not my poore drops, yet theyMust yeild their tribute there.  My precious Maide,Those best affections, that the heavens infuseIn their best temperd peices, keepe enthroandIn your deare heart.EMILIA.Thanckes, Sir.  Remember meTo our all royall Brother, for whose speedeThe great Bellona ile sollicite; andSince in our terrene State petitions are notWithout giftes understood, Ile offer to herWhat I shall be advised she likes: our heartsAre in his Army, in his Tent.HIPPOLITA.In's bosome:We have bin Soldiers, and wee cannot weepeWhen our Friends don their helmes, or put to sea,Or tell of Babes broachd on the Launce, or womenThat have sod their Infants in (and after eate them)The brine, they wept at killing 'em; Then ifYou stay to see of us such Spincsters, weShould hold you here for ever.PERITHOUS.Peace be to you,As I pursue this war, which shall be thenBeyond further requiring.  [Exit Pir.]EMILIA.How his longingFollowes his Friend! since his depart, his sportesThough craving seriousnes, and skill, past slightlyHis careles execution, where nor gaineMade him regard, or losse consider; butPlaying one busines in his hand, anotherDirecting in his head, his minde, nurse equallTo these so diffring Twyns--have you observ'd him,Since our great Lord departed?HIPPOLITA.With much labour,And I did love him fort: they two have CabindIn many as dangerous, as poore a Corner,Perill and want contending; they have skiftTorrents whose roring tyranny and powerI'th least of these was dreadfull, and they haveFought out together, where Deaths-selfe was lodgd,Yet fate hath brought them off: Their knot of love,Tide, weau'd, intangled, with so true, so long,And with a finger of so deepe a cunning,May be outworne, never undone.  I thinkeTheseus cannot be umpire to himselfe,Cleaving his conscience into twaine and doingEach side like Iustice, which he loves best.EMILIA.DoubtlesseThere is a best, and reason has no mannersTo say it is not you: I was acquaintedOnce with a time, when I enjoyd a Play-fellow;You were at wars, when she the grave enrichd,Who made too proud the Bed, tooke leave o th Moone(Which then lookt pale at parting) when our countWas each eleven.HIPPOLITA.Twas Flaui(n)a.EMILIA.Yes.You talke of Pirithous and Theseus love;Theirs has more ground, is more maturely seasond,More buckled with strong Iudgement and their needesThe one of th'other may be said to water  [2. Hearses ready with Palamon: and Arcite: the 3. Queenes.  Theseus: and his Lordes ready.]Their intertangled rootes of love; but IAnd shee I sigh and spoke of were things innocent,Lou'd for we did, and like the ElementsThat know not what, nor why, yet doe effectRare issues by their operance, our soulesDid so to one another; what she lik'd,Was then of me approov'd, what not, condemd,No more arraignment; the flowre that I would pluckeAnd put betweene my breasts (then but beginningTo swell about the blossome) oh, she would longTill shee had such another, and commit itTo the like innocent Cradle, where Phenix likeThey dide in perfume: on my head no toyBut was her patterne; her affections (pretty,Though, happely, her careles were) I followedFor my most serious decking; had mine eareStolne some new aire, or at adventure humd onFrom musicall Coynadge, why it was a noteWhereon her spirits would sojourne (rather dwell on)And sing it in her slumbers.  This rehearsall(Which ev'ry innocent wots well comes inLike old importments bastard) has this end,That the true love tweene Mayde, and mayde, may beMore then in sex idividuall.HIPPOLITA.Y'are out of breathAnd this high speeded pace, is but to sayThat you shall never like the Maide FlavinaLove any that's calld Man.EMILIA.I am sure I shall not.HIPPOLITA.Now, alacke, weake Sister,I must no more beleeve thee in this point(Though in't I know thou dost beleeve thy selfe,)Then I will trust a sickely appetite,That loathes even as it longs; but, sure, my Sister,If I were ripe for your perswasion, youHave saide enough to shake me from the ArmeOf the all noble Theseus, for whose fortunesI will now in, and kneele with great assurance,That we, more then his Pirothous, possesseThe high throne in his heart.EMILIA.I am notAgainst your faith; yet I continew mine.  [Exeunt. Cornets.]Scaena 4.  (A field before Thebes.  Dead bodies lying on theground.)[A Battaile strooke within: Then a Retrait: Florish.  Then Enter Theseus (victor), (Herald and Attendants:) the three Queenes meete him, and fall on their faces before him.]1. QUEEN.To thee no starre be darke.2. QUEEN.Both heaven and earthFriend thee for ever.3. QUEEN.All the good that mayBe wishd upon thy head, I cry Amen too't.THESEUS.Th'imparciall Gods, who from the mounted heavensView us their mortall Heard, behold who erre,And in their time chastice: goe and finde outThe bones of your dead Lords, and honour themWith treble Ceremonie; rather then a gapShould be in their deere rights, we would supply't.But those we will depute, which shall investYou in your dignities, and even each thingOur hast does leave imperfect: So, adiew,And heavens good eyes looke on you.  What are those?  [ExeuntQueenes.]HERALD.Men of great quality, as may be judgdBy their appointment; Sone of Thebs have told'sThey are Sisters children, Nephewes to the King.THESEUS.By'th Helme of Mars, I saw them in the war,Like to a paire of Lions, smeard with prey,Make lanes in troopes agast.  I fixt my noteConstantly on them; for they were a markeWorth a god's view: what prisoner was't that told meWhen I enquired their names?HERALD.Wi'leave, they'r called Arcite and Palamon.THESEUS.Tis right: those, those.  They are not dead?HERALD.Nor in a state of life: had they bin taken,When their last hurts were given, twas possible  [3. Hearsesready.]They might have bin recovered; Yet they breatheAnd haue the name of men.THESEUS.Then like men use 'em.The very lees of such (millions of rates)Exceede the wine of others: all our SurgionsConvent in their behoofe; our richest balmesRather then niggard, waft: their lives concerne usMuch more then Thebs is worth: rather then have 'emFreed of this plight, and in their morning state(Sound and at liberty) I would 'em dead;But forty thousand fold we had rather have 'emPrisoners to us then death.  Beare 'em speedilyFrom our kinde aire, to them unkinde, and ministerWhat man to man may doe--for our sake more,Since I have knowne frights, fury, friends beheastes,Loves provocations, zeale, a mistris Taske,Desire of liberty, a feavour, madnes,Hath set a marke which nature could not reach tooWithout some imposition: sicknes in willOr wrastling strength in reason.  For our LoveAnd great Appollos mercy, all our bestTheir best skill tender.  Leade into the Citty,Where having bound things scatterd, we will post  [Florish.]To Athens for(e) our Army  [Exeunt.  Musicke.]Scaena 5.  (Another part of the same.)[Enter the Queenes with the Hearses of their Knightes, in a Funerall Solempnity, &c.]Vrnes and odours bring away,Vapours, sighes, darken the day;Our dole more deadly lookes than dying;Balmes, and Gummes, and heavy cheeres,Sacred vials fill'd with teares,And clamors through the wild ayre flying.Come all sad and solempne Showes,That are quick-eyd pleasures foes;We convent nought else but woes.We convent, &c.3. QUEEN.This funeral path brings to your housholds grave:Ioy ceaze on you againe: peace sleepe with him.2. QUEEN.And this to yours.1. QUEEN.Yours this way: Heavens lendA thousand differing waies to one sure end.3. QUEEN.This world's a Citty full of straying Streetes,And Death's the market place, where each one meetes.  [Exeunt severally.]Actus Secundus.Scaena 1.  (Athens.  A garden, with a prison in the background.)[Enter Iailor, and Wooer.]IAILOR.I may depart with little, while I live; some thing I may cast toyou, not much: Alas, the Prison I keepe, though it be for greatones, yet they seldome come; Before one Salmon, you shall take anumber of Minnowes.  I am given out to be better lyn'd then itcan appeare to me report is a true Speaker: I would I were reallythat I am deliverd to be.  Marry, what I have (be it what itwill)I will assure upon my daughter at the day of my death.WOOER.Sir, I demaund no more then your owne offer, and I will estateyourDaughter in what I have promised.IAILOR.Wel, we will talke more of this, when the solemnity is past.  Buthave you a full promise of her?  When that shall be seene, Itendermy consent.[Enter Daughter.]WOOER.I have Sir; here shee comes.IAILOR.Your Friend and I have chanced to name you here, upon the oldbusines: But no more of that now; so soone as the Court hurryis over, we will have an end of it: I'th meane time looketenderly to the two Prisoners.  I can tell you they are princes.DAUGHTER.These strewings are for their Chamber; tis pitty they are inprison,and twer pitty they should be out: I doe thinke they havepatienceto make any adversity asham'd; the prison it selfe is proud of'em;and they have all the world in their Chamber.IAILOR.They are fam'd to be a paire of absolute men.DAUGHTER.By my troth, I think Fame but stammers 'em; they stand a greiseabove the reach of report.IAILOR.I heard them reported in the Battaile to be the only doers.DAUGHTER.Nay, most likely, for they are noble suffrers; I mervaile howtheywould have lookd had they beene Victors, that with such aconstantNobility enforce a freedome out of Bondage, making misery theirMirth,and affliction a toy to jest at.IAILOR.Doe they so?DAUGHTER.It seemes to me they have no more sence of their Captivity, thenIof ruling Athens: they eate well, looke merrily, discourse ofmanythings, but nothing of their owne restraint, and disasters: yetsometime a devided sigh, martyrd as 'twer i'th deliverance, willbreake from one of them; when the other presently gives it sosweetea rebuke, that I could wish my selfe a Sigh to be so chid, or atleast a Sigher to be comforted.WOOER.I never saw 'em.IAILOR.The Duke himselfe came privately in the night,[Enter Palamon, and Arcite, above.]and so did they: what the reason of it is, I know not: Looke,yonderthey are! that's Arcite lookes out.DAUGHTER.No, Sir, no, that's Palamon: Arcite is the lower of the twaine;youmay perceive a part of him.IAILOR.Goe too, leave your pointing; they would not make us theirobject;out of their sight.DAUGHTER.It is a holliday to looke on them: Lord, the diffrence of men! [Exeunt.]Scaena 2.  (The prison)[Enter Palamon, and Arcite in prison.]PALAMON.How doe you, Noble Cosen?ARCITE.How doe you, Sir?PALAMON.Why strong inough to laugh at misery,And beare the chance of warre, yet we are prisoners,I feare, for ever, Cosen.ARCITE.I beleeve it,And to that destiny have patientlyLaide up my houre to come.PALAMON.O Cosen Arcite,Where is Thebs now? where is our noble Country?Where are our friends, and kindreds? never moreMust we behold those comforts, never seeThe hardy youthes strive for the Games of honour(Hung with the painted favours of their Ladies,Like tall Ships under saile) then start among'st 'emAnd as an Eastwind leave 'en all behinde us,Like lazy Clowdes, whilst Palamon and Arcite,Even in the wagging of a wanton legOut-stript the peoples praises, won the Garlands,Ere they have time to wish 'em ours.  O neverShall we two exercise, like Twyns of honour,Our Armes againe, and feele our fyry horsesLike proud Seas under us: our good Swords now(Better the red-eyd god of war nev'r wore)Ravishd our sides, like age must run to rust,And decke the Temples of those gods that hate us:These hands shall never draw'em out like lightning,To blast whole Armies more.ARCITE.No, Palamon,Those hopes are Prisoners with us; here we areAnd here the graces of our youthes must witherLike a too-timely Spring; here age must finde us,And, which is heaviest, Palamon, unmarried;The sweete embraces of a loving wife,Loden with kisses, armd with thousand CupidsShall never claspe our neckes, no issue know us,No figures of our selves shall we ev'r see,To glad our age, and like young Eagles teach 'emBoldly to gaze against bright armes, and say:'Remember what your fathers were, and conquer.'The faire-eyd Maides, shall weepe our Banishments,And in their Songs, curse ever-blinded fortune,Till shee for shame see what a wrong she has doneTo youth and nature.  This is all our world;We shall know nothing here but one another,Heare nothing but the Clocke that tels our woes.The Vine shall grow, but we shall never see it:Sommer shall come, and with her all delights;But dead-cold winter must inhabite here still.PALAMON.Tis too true, Arcite.  To our Theban houndes,That shooke the aged Forrest with their ecchoes,No more now must we halloa, no more shakeOur pointed Iavelyns, whilst the angry SwineFlyes like a parthian quiver from our rages,Strucke with our well-steeld Darts: All valiant uses(The foode, and nourishment of noble mindes,)In us two here shall perish; we shall die(Which is the curse of honour) lastlyChildren of greife, and Ignorance.ARCITE.Yet, Cosen,Even from the bottom of these miseries,From all that fortune can inflict upon us,I see two comforts rysing, two meere blessings,If the gods please: to hold here a brave patience,And the enjoying of our greefes together.Whilst Palamon is with me, let me perishIf I thinke this our prison.PALAMON.Certeinly,Tis a maine goodnes, Cosen, that our fortunesWere twyn'd together; tis most true, two soulesPut in two noble Bodies--let 'em sufferThe gaule of hazard, so they grow together--Will never sincke; they must not, say they could:A willing man dies sleeping, and all's done.ARCITE.Shall we make worthy uses of this placeThat all men hate so much?PALAMON.How, gentle Cosen?ARCITE.Let's thinke this prison holy sanctuary,To keepe us from corruption of worse men.We are young and yet desire the waies of honour,That liberty and common Conversation,The poyson of pure spirits, might like womenWooe us to wander from.  What worthy blessingCan be but our ImaginationsMay make it ours?  And heere being thus together,We are an endles mine to one another;We are one anothers wife, ever begettingNew birthes of love; we are father, friends, acquaintance;We are, in one another, Families,I am your heire, and you are mine: This placeIs our Inheritance, no hard OppressourDare take this from us; here, with a little patience,We shall live long, and loving: No surfeits seeke us:The hand of war hurts none here, nor the SeasSwallow their youth: were we at liberty,A wife might part us lawfully, or busines;Quarrels consume us, Envy of ill menGrave our acquaintance; I might sicken, Cosen,Where you should never know it, and so perishWithout your noble hand to close mine eies,Or praiers to the gods: a thousand chaunces,Were we from hence, would seaver us.PALAMON.You have made me(I thanke you, Cosen Arcite) almost wantonWith my Captivity: what a miseryIt is to live abroade, and every where!Tis like a Beast, me thinkes: I finde the Court here--I am sure, a more content; and all those pleasuresThat wooe the wils of men to vanity,I see through now, and am sufficientTo tell the world, tis but a gaudy shaddow,That old Time, as he passes by, takes with him.What had we bin, old in the Court of Creon,Where sin is Iustice, lust and ignoranceThe vertues of the great ones! Cosen Arcite,Had not the loving gods found this place for us,We had died as they doe, ill old men, unwept,And had their Epitaphes, the peoples Curses:Shall I say more?ARCITE.I would heare you still.PALAMON.Ye shall.Is there record of any two that lov'dBetter then we doe, Arcite?ARCITE.Sure, there cannot.PALAMON.I doe not thinke it possible our friendshipShould ever leave us.ARCITE.Till our deathes it cannot;[Enter Emilia and her woman (below).]And after death our spirits shall be ledTo those that love eternally.  Speake on, Sir.EMILIA.This garden has a world of pleasures in't.What Flowre is this?WOMAN.Tis calld Narcissus, Madam.EMILIA.That was a faire Boy, certaine, but a foole,To love himselfe; were there not maides enough?ARCITE.Pray forward.PALAMON.Yes.EMILIA.Or were they all hard hearted?WOMAN.They could not be to one so faire.EMILIA.Thou wouldst not.WOMAN.I thinke I should not, Madam.EMILIA.That's a good wench:But take heede to your kindnes though.WOMAN.Why, Madam?EMILIA.Men are mad things.ARCITE.Will ye goe forward, Cosen?EMILIA.Canst not thou worke such flowers in silke, wench?WOMAN.Yes.EMILIA.Ile have a gowne full of 'em, and of these;This is a pretty colour, wilt not doeRarely upon a Skirt, wench?WOMAN.Deinty, Madam.ARCITE.Cosen, Cosen, how doe you, Sir?  Why, Palamon?PALAMON.Never till now I was in prison, Arcite.ARCITE.Why whats the matter, Man?PALAMON.Behold, and wonder.By heaven, shee is a Goddesse.ARCITE.Ha.PALAMON.Doe reverence.  She is a Goddesse, Arcite.EMILIA.Of all Flowres, me thinkes a Rose is best.WOMAN.Why, gentle Madam?EMILIA.It is the very Embleme of a Maide.For when the west wind courts her gently,How modestly she blowes, and paints the Sun,With her chaste blushes!  When the North comes neere her,Rude and impatient, then, like Chastity,Shee lockes her beauties in her bud againe,And leaves him to base briers.WOMAN.Yet, good Madam,Sometimes her modesty will blow so farShe fals for't: a Mayde,If shee have any honour, would be lothTo take example by her.EMILIA.Thou art wanton.ARCITE.She is wondrous faire.PALAMON.She is beauty extant.EMILIA.The Sun grows high, lets walk in: keep these flowers;Weele see how neere Art can come neere their colours.I am wondrous merry hearted, I could laugh now.WOMAN.I could lie downe, I am sure.EMILIA.And take one with you?WOMAN.That's as we bargaine, Madam.EMILIA.Well, agree then.  [Exeunt Emilia and woman.]PALAMON.What thinke you of this beauty?ARCITE.Tis a rare one.PALAMON.Is't but a rare one?ARCITE.Yes, a matchles beauty.PALAMON.Might not a man well lose himselfe and love her?ARCITE.I cannot tell what you have done, I have;Beshrew mine eyes for't: now I feele my Shackles.PALAMON.You love her, then?ARCITE.Who would not?PALAMON.And desire her?ARCITE.Before my liberty.PALAMON.I saw her first.ARCITE.That's nothing.PALAMON.But it shall be.ARCITE.I saw her too.PALAMON.Yes, but you must not love her.ARCITE.I will not as you doe, to worship her,As she is heavenly, and a blessed Goddes;I love her as a woman, to enjoy her:So both may love.PALAMON.You shall not love at all.ARCITE.Not love at all!Who shall deny me?PALAMON.I, that first saw her; I, that tooke possessionFirst with mine eyes of all those beautiesIn her reveald to mankinde: if thou lou'st her,Or entertain'st a hope to blast my wishes,Thou art a Traytour, Arcite, and a fellowFalse as thy Title to her: friendship, blood,And all the tyes betweene us I disclaime,If thou once thinke upon her.ARCITE.Yes, I love her,And if the lives of all my name lay on it,I must doe so; I love her with my soule:If that will lose ye, farewell, Palamon;I say againe, I love, and in loving her maintaineI am as worthy and as free a lover,And have as just a title to her beautyAs any Palamon or any livingThat is a mans Sonne.PALAMON.Have I cald thee friend?ARCITE.Yes, and have found me so; why are you mov'd thus?Let me deale coldly with you: am not IPart of your blood, part of your soule? you have told meThat I was Palamon, and you were Arcite.PALAMON.Yes.ARCITE.Am not I liable to those affections,Those joyes, greifes, angers, feares, my friend shall suffer?PALAMON.Ye may be.ARCITE.Why, then, would you deale so cunningly,So strangely, so vnlike a noble kinesman,To love alone? speake truely: doe you thinke meVnworthy of her sight?PALAMON.No; but unjust,If thou pursue that sight.ARCITE.Because an otherFirst sees the Enemy, shall I stand stillAnd let mine honour downe, and never charge?PALAMON.Yes, if he be but one.ARCITE.But say that oneHad rather combat me?PALAMON.Let that one say so,And use thy freedome; els if thou pursuest her,Be as that cursed man that hates his Country,A branded villaine.ARCITE.You are mad.PALAMON.I must be,Till thou art worthy, Arcite; it concernes me,And in this madnes, if I hazard theeAnd take thy life, I deale but truely.ARCITE.Fie, Sir,You play the Childe extreamely: I will love her,I must, I ought to doe so, and I dare;And all this justly.PALAMON.O that now, that nowThy false-selfe and thy friend had but this fortune,To be one howre at liberty, and graspeOur good Swords in our hands! I would quickly teach theeWhat 'twer to filch affection from another:Thou art baser in it then a Cutpurse;Put but thy head out of this window more,And as I have a soule, Ile naile thy life too't.ARCITE.Thou dar'st not, foole, thou canst not, thou art feeble.Put my head out?  Ile throw my Body out,And leape the garden, when I see her next[Enter Keeper.]And pitch between her armes to anger thee.PALAMON.No more; the keeper's comming; I shall liveTo knocke thy braines out with my Shackles.ARCITE.Doe.KEEPER.By your leave, Gentlemen--PALAMON.Now, honest keeper?KEEPER.Lord Arcite, you must presently to'th Duke;The cause I know not yet.ARCITE.I am ready, keeper.KEEPER.Prince Palamon, I must awhile bereave youOf your faire Cosens Company.  [Exeunt Arcite, and Keeper.]PALAMON.And me too,Even when you please, of life.  Why is he sent for?It may be he shall marry her; he's goodly,And like enough the Duke hath taken noticeBoth of his blood and body: But his falsehood!Why should a friend be treacherous?  If thatGet him a wife so noble, and so faire,Let honest men ne're love againe.  Once moreI would but see this faire One.  Blessed Garden,And fruite, and flowers more blessed, that still blossomAs her bright eies shine on ye! would I were,For all the fortune of my life hereafter,Yon little Tree, yon blooming Apricocke;How I would spread, and fling my wanton armesIn at her window; I would bring her fruiteFit for the Gods to feed on: youth and pleasureStill as she tasted should be doubled on her,And if she be not heavenly, I would make herSo neere the Gods in nature, they should feare her,[Enter Keeper.]And then I am sure she would love me.  How now, keeper.Wher's Arcite?KEEPER.Banishd: Prince PirithousObtained his liberty; but never moreVpon his oth and life must he set footeVpon this Kingdome.PALAMON.Hees a blessed man!He shall see Thebs againe, and call to ArmesThe bold yong men, that, when he bids 'em charge,Fall on like fire: Arcite shall have a Fortune,If he dare make himselfe a worthy Lover,Yet in the Feild to strike a battle for her;And if he lose her then, he's a cold Coward;How bravely may he beare himselfe to win herIf he be noble Arcite--thousand waies.Were I at liberty, I would doe thingsOf such a vertuous greatnes, that this Lady,This blushing virgine, should take manhood to herAnd seeke to ravish me.KEEPER.My Lord for youI have this charge too--PALAMON.To discharge my life?KEEPER.No, but from this place to remoove your Lordship:The windowes are too open.PALAMON.Devils take 'em,That are so envious to me! pre'thee kill me.KEEPER.And hang for't afterward.PALAMON.By this good light,Had I a sword I would kill thee.KEEPER.Why, my Lord?PALAMON.Thou bringst such pelting scuruy news continuallyThou art not worthy life.  I will not goe.KEEPER.Indeede, you must, my Lord.PALAMON.May I see the garden?KEEPER.Noe.PALAMON.Then I am resolud, I will not goe.KEEPER.I must constraine you then: and for you are dangerous,Ile clap more yrons on you.PALAMON.Doe, good keeper.Ile shake 'em so, ye shall not sleepe;Ile make ye a new Morrisse: must I goe?KEEPER.There is no remedy.PALAMON.Farewell, kinde window.May rude winde never hurt thee.  O, my Lady,If ever thou hast felt what sorrow was,Dreame how I suffer.  Come; now bury me.  [Exeunt Palamon, andKeeper.]Scaena 3.  (The country near Athens.)[Enter Arcite.]ARCITE.Banishd the kingdome? tis a benefit,A mercy I must thanke 'em for, but banishdThe free enjoying of that face I die for,Oh twas a studdied punishment, a deathBeyond Imagination: Such a vengeanceThat, were I old and wicked, all my sinsCould never plucke upon me.  Palamon,Thou ha'st the Start now, thou shalt stay and seeHer bright eyes breake each morning gainst thy window,And let in life into thee; thou shalt feedeVpon the sweetenes of a noble beauty,That nature nev'r exceeded, nor nev'r shall:Good gods! what happines has Palamon!Twenty to one, hee'le come to speake to her,And if she be as gentle as she's faire,I know she's his; he has a Tongue will tameTempests, and make the wild Rockes wanton.Come what can come,The worst is death; I will not leave the Kingdome.I know mine owne is but a heape of ruins,And no redresse there; if I goe, he has her.I am resolu'd an other shape shall make me,Or end my fortunes.  Either way, I am happy:Ile see her, and be neere her, or no more.[Enter 4. Country people, & one with a garlond before them.]1. COUNTREYMANMy Masters, ile be there, that's certaine2. COUNTREYMANAnd Ile be there.3. COUNTREYMANAnd I.4. COUNTREYMANWhy, then, have with ye, Boyes; Tis but a chiding.Let the plough play to day, ile tick'lt outOf the Iades tailes to morrow.1. COUNTREYMANI am sureTo have my wife as jealous as a Turkey:But that's all one; ile goe through, let her mumble.2. COUNTREYMANClap her aboard to morrow night, and stoa her,And all's made up againe.3. COUNTREYMANI, doe but put a feskue in her fist, and you shall see herTake a new lesson out, and be a good wench.Doe we all hold against the Maying?4. COUNTREYMANHold? what should aile us?3. COUNTREYMANArcas will be there.2. COUNTREYMANAnd Sennois.And Rycas, and 3. better lads nev'r dancdUnder green Tree.  And yee know what wenches: ha?But will the dainty Domine, the Schoolemaster,Keep touch, doe you thinke? for he do's all, ye know.3. COUNTREYMANHee'l eate a hornebooke ere he faile: goe too, the matter's toofarre driven betweene him and the Tanners daughter, to let slipnow, and she must see the Duke, and she must daunce too.4. COUNTREYMANShall we be lusty?2. COUNTREYMANAll the Boyes in Athens blow wind i'th breech on's, and heere ilebe and there ile be, for our Towne, and here againe, and thereagaine:ha, Boyes, heigh for the weavers.1. COUNTREYMANThis must be done i'th woods.4. COUNTREYMANO, pardon me.2. COUNTREYMANBy any meanes, our thing of learning saies so:Where he himselfe will edifie the DukeMost parlously in our behalfes: hees excellent i'th woods;Bring him to'th plaines, his learning makes no cry.3. COUNTREYMANWeele see the sports, then; every man to's Tackle:And, Sweete Companions, lets rehearse by any meanes,Before the Ladies see us, and doe sweetly,And God knows what May come on't.4. COUNTREYMANContent; the sports once ended, wee'l performe.Away, Boyes and hold.ARCITE.By your leaves, honest friends: pray you, whither goe you?4. COUNTREYMANWhither? why, what a question's that?ARCITE.Yes, tis a question, to me that know not.3. COUNTREYMANTo the Games, my Friend.2. COUNTREYMANWhere were you bred, you know it not?ARCITE.Not farre, Sir,Are there such Games to day?1. COUNTREYMANYes, marry, are there:And such as you neuer saw; The Duke himselfeWill be in person there.ARCITE.What pastimes are they?2. COUNTREYMANWrastling, and Running.--Tis a pretty Fellow.3. COUNTREYMANThou wilt not goe along?ARCITE.Not yet, Sir.4. COUNTREYMANWell, Sir,Take your owne time: come, Boyes.1. COUNTREYMANMy minde misgives me;This fellow has a veng'ance tricke o'th hip:Marke how his Bodi's made for't2. COUNTREYMANIle be hangd, though,If he dare venture; hang him, plumb porredge,He wrastle? he rost eggs! Come, lets be gon, Lads.  [Exeunt.]ARCITE.This is an offerd oportunityI durst not wish for.  Well I could have wrestled,The best men calld it excellent, and run--Swifter the winde upon a feild of Corne(Curling the wealthy eares) never flew: Ile venture,And in some poore disguize be there; who knowesWhether my browes may not be girt with garlands?And happines preferre me to a place,Where I may ever dwell in sight of her.  [Exit Arcite.]Scaena 4.  (Athens.  A room in the prison.)[Enter Iailors Daughter alone.]DAUGHTER.Why should I love this Gentleman?  Tis oddsHe never will affect me; I am base,My Father the meane Keeper of his Prison,And he a prince: To marry him is hopelesse;To be his whore is witles.  Out upon't,What pushes are we wenches driven to,When fifteene once has found us!  First, I saw him;I (seeing) thought he was a goodly man;He has as much to please a woman in him,(If he please to bestow it so) as everThese eyes yet lookt on.  Next, I pittied him,And so would any young wench, o' my Conscience,That ever dream'd, or vow'd her MaydenheadTo a yong hansom Man; Then I lov'd him,Extreamely lov'd him, infinitely lov'd him;And yet he had a Cosen, faire as he too.But in my heart was Palamon, and there,Lord, what a coyle he keepes!  To heare himSing in an evening, what a heaven it is!And yet his Songs are sad ones.  Fairer spokenWas never Gentleman.  When I come inTo bring him water in a morning, firstHe bowes his noble body, then salutes me, thus:'Faire, gentle Mayde, good morrow; may thy goodnesGet thee a happy husband.'  Once he kist me.I lov'd my lips the better ten daies after.Would he would doe so ev'ry day!  He greives much,And me as much to see his misery.What should I doe, to make him know I love him?For I would faine enjoy him.  Say I ventur'dTo set him free? what saies the law then?  Thus muchFor Law, or kindred!  I will doe it,And this night, or to morrow, he shall love me.  [Exit.]Scaena 5.  (An open place in Athens.)[Enter Theseus, Hipolita, Pirithous, Emilia: Arcite with aGarland, &c.][This short florish of Cornets and Showtes within.]THESEUS.You have done worthily; I have not seene,Since Hercules, a man of tougher synewes;What ere you are, you run the best, and wrastle,That these times can allow.ARCITE.I am proud to please you.THESEUS.What Countrie bred you?ARCITE.This; but far off, Prince.THESEUS.Are you a Gentleman?ARCITE.My father said so;And to those gentle uses gave me life.THESEUS.Are you his heire?ARCITE.His yongest, Sir.THESEUS.Your FatherSure is a happy Sire then: what prooves you?ARCITE.A little of all noble Quallities:I could have kept a Hawke, and well have holloa'dTo a deepe crie of Dogges; I dare not praiseMy feat in horsemanship, yet they that knew meWould say it was my best peece: last, and greatest,I would be thought a Souldier.THESEUS.You are perfect.PERITHOUS.Vpon my soule, a proper man.EMILIA.He is so.PERITHOUS.How doe you like him, Ladie?HIPPOLITA.I admire him;I have not seene so yong a man so noble(If he say true,) of his sort.EMILIA.Beleeve,His mother was a wondrous handsome woman;His face, me thinkes, goes that way.HIPPOLITA.But his BodyAnd firie minde illustrate a brave Father.PERITHOUS.Marke how his vertue, like a hidden Sun,Breakes through his baser garments.HIPPOLITA.Hee's well got, sure.THESEUS.What made you seeke this place, Sir?ARCITE.Noble Theseus,To purchase name, and doe my ablest serviceTo such a well-found wonder as thy worth,For onely in thy Court, of all the world,Dwells faire-eyd honor.PERITHOUS.All his words are worthy.THESEUS.Sir, we are much endebted to your travell,Nor shall you loose your wish: Perithous,Dispose of this faire Gentleman.PERITHOUS.Thankes, Theseus.What ere you are y'ar mine, and I shall give youTo a most noble service, to this Lady,This bright yong Virgin; pray, observe her goodnesse;You have honourd hir faire birth-day with your vertues,And as your due y'ar hirs: kisse her faire hand, Sir.ARCITE.Sir, y'ar a noble Giver: dearest Bewtie,Thus let me seale my vowd faith: when your Servant(Your most unworthie Creature) but offends you,Command him die, he shall.EMILIA.That were too cruell.If you deserve well, Sir, I shall soone see't:Y'ar mine, and somewhat better than your ranckeIle use you.PERITHOUS.Ile see you furnish'd, and because you sayYou are a horseman, I must needs intreat youThis after noone to ride, but tis a rough one.ARCITE.I like him better, Prince, I shall not thenFreeze in my Saddle.THESEUS.Sweet, you must be readie,And you, Emilia, and you, Friend, and all,To morrow by the Sun, to doe observanceTo flowry May, in Dians wood: waite well, Sir,Vpon your Mistris.  Emely, I hopeHe shall not goe a foote.EMILIA.That were a shame, Sir,While I have horses: take your choice, and whatYou want at any time, let me but know it;If you serve faithfully, I dare assure youYou'l finde a loving Mistris.ARCITE.If I doe not,Let me finde that my Father ever hated,Disgrace and blowes.THESEUS.Go, leade the way; you have won it:It shall be so; you shall receave all duesFit for the honour you have won; Twer wrong else.Sister, beshrew my heart, you have a Servant,That, if I were a woman, would be Master,But you are wise.  [Florish.]EMILIA.I hope too wise for that, Sir.  [Exeunt omnes.]Scaena 6.  (Before the prison.)[Enter Iaylors Daughter alone.]DAUGHTER.Let all the Dukes, and all the divells rore,He is at liberty: I have venturd for him,And out I have brought him to a little woodA mile hence.  I have sent him, where a Cedar,Higher than all the rest, spreads like a planeFast by a Brooke, and there he shall keepe close,Till I provide him Fyles and foode, for yetHis yron bracelets are not off.  O Love,What a stout hearted child thou art!  My FatherDurst better have indur'd cold yron, than done it:I love him beyond love and beyond reason,Or wit, or safetie: I have made him know it.I care not, I am desperate; If the lawFinde me, and then condemne me for't, some wenches,Some honest harted Maides, will sing my Dirge,And tell to memory my death was noble,Dying almost a Martyr: That way he takes,I purpose is my way too: Sure he cannotBe so unmanly, as to leave me here;If he doe, Maides will not so easilyTrust men againe: And yet he has not thank'd meFor what I have done: no not so much as kist me,And that (me thinkes) is not so well; nor scarcelyCould I perswade him to become a Freeman,He made such scruples of the wrong he didTo me, and to my Father.  Yet I hope,When he considers more, this love of mineWill take more root within him: Let him doeWhat he will with me, so he use me kindly;For use me so he shall, or ile proclaime him,And to his face, no man.  Ile presentlyProvide him necessaries, and packe my cloathes up,And where there is a patch of ground Ile venture,So hee be with me; By him, like a shadow,Ile ever dwell; within this houre the whoobubWill be all ore the prison: I am thenKissing the man they looke for: farewell, Father;Get many more such prisoners and such daughters,And shortly you may keepe your selfe.  Now to him!Actus Tertius.Scaena 1.  (A forest near Athens.)[Cornets in sundry places.  Noise and hallowing as people aMaying.][Enter Arcite alone.]ARCITE.The Duke has lost Hypolita; each tookeA severall land.  This is a solemne RightThey owe bloomd May, and the Athenians pay itTo'th heart of Ceremony.  O Queene Emilia,Fresher then May, sweeterThen hir gold Buttons on the bowes, or allTh'enamelld knackes o'th Meade or garden: yea,We challenge too the bancke of any NymphThat makes the streame seeme flowers; thou, o IewellO'th wood, o'th world, hast likewise blest a placeWith thy sole presence: in thy ruminationThat I, poore man, might eftsoones come betweeneAnd chop on some cold thought! thrice blessed chance,To drop on such a Mistris, expectationMost giltlesse on't! tell me, O Lady Fortune,(Next after Emely my Soveraigne) how farI may be prowd.  She takes strong note of me,Hath made me neere her; and this beuteous Morne(The prim'st of all the yeare) presents me withA brace of horses: two such Steeds might wellBe by a paire of Kings backt, in a FieldThat their crownes titles tride.  Alas, alas,Poore Cosen Palamon, poore prisoner, thouSo little dream'st upon my fortune, thatThou thinkst thy selfe the happier thing, to beSo neare Emilia; me thou deem'st at Thebs,And therein wretched, although free.  But ifThou knew'st my Mistris breathd on me, and thatI ear'd her language, livde in her eye, O Coz,What passion would enclose thee![Enter Palamon as out of a Bush, with his Shackles: bends hisfist at Arcite.]PALAMON.Traytor kinesman,Thou shouldst perceive my passion, if these signesOf prisonment were off me, and this handBut owner of a Sword: By all othes in one,I and the iustice of my love would make theeA confest Traytor.  O thou most perfidiousThat ever gently lookd; the voydest of honour,That eu'r bore gentle Token; falsest CosenThat ever blood made kin, call'st thou hir thine?Ile prove it in my Shackles, with these hands,Void of appointment, that thou ly'st, and artA very theefe in love, a Chaffy Lord,Nor worth the name of villaine: had I a SwordAnd these house clogges away--ARCITE.Deere Cosin Palamon--PALAMON.Cosoner Arcite, give me language suchAs thou hast shewd me feate.ARCITE.Not finding inThe circuit of my breast any grosse stuffeTo forme me like your blazon, holds me toThis gentlenesse of answer; tis your passionThat thus mistakes, the which to you being enemy,Cannot to me be kind: honor, and honestieI cherish, and depend on, how so ev'rYou skip them in me, and with them, faire Coz,Ile maintaine my proceedings; pray, be pleas'dTo shew in generous termes your griefes, since thatYour question's with your equall, who professesTo cleare his owne way with the minde and SwordOf a true Gentleman.PALAMON.That thou durst, Arcite!ARCITE.My Coz, my Coz, you have beene well advertis'dHow much I dare, y'ave seene me use my SwordAgainst th'advice of feare: sure, of anotherYou would not heare me doubted, but your silenceShould breake out, though i'th Sanctuary.PALAMON.Sir,I have seene you move in such a place, which wellMight justifie your manhood; you were calldA good knight and a bold; But the whole weeke's not faire,If any day it rayne: Their valiant temperMen loose when they encline to trecherie,And then they fight like coupelld Beares, would flyWere they not tyde.ARCITE.Kinsman, you might as wellSpeake this and act it in your Glasse, as toHis eare which now disdaines you.PALAMON.Come up to me,Quit me of these cold Gyves, give me a Sword,Though it be rustie, and the charityOf one meale lend me; Come before me then,A good Sword in thy hand, and doe but sayThat Emily is thine: I will forgiveThe trespasse thou hast done me, yea, my life,If then thou carry't, and brave soules in shadesThat have dyde manly, which will seeke of meSome newes from earth, they shall get none but this,That thou art brave and noble.ARCITE.Be content:Againe betake you to your hawthorne house;With counsaile of the night, I will be hereWith wholesome viands; these impedimentsWill I file off; you shall have garments andPerfumes to kill the smell o'th prison; after,When you shall stretch your selfe and say but, 'Arcite,I am in plight,' there shall be at your choyceBoth Sword and Armour.PALAMON.Oh you heavens, dares anySo noble beare a guilty busines! noneBut onely Arcite, therefore none but ArciteIn this kinde is so bold.ARCITE.Sweete Palamon.PALAMON.I doe embrace you and your offer,--forYour offer doo't I onely, Sir; your person,Without hipocrisy I may not wish  [Winde hornes of Cornets.]More then my Swords edge ont.ARCITE.You heare the Hornes;Enter your Musite least this match between'sBe crost, er met: give me your hand; farewell.Ile bring you every needfull thing: I pray you,Take comfort and be strong.PALAMON.Pray hold your promise;And doe the deede with a bent brow: most certaineYou love me not, be rough with me, and powreThis oile out of your language; by this ayre,I could for each word give a Cuffe, my stomachNot reconcild by reason.ARCITE.Plainely spoken,Yet pardon me hard language: when I spur  [Winde hornes.]My horse, I chide him not; content and angerIn me have but one face.  Harke, Sir, they callThe scatterd to the Banket; you must guesseI have an office there.PALAMON.Sir, your attendanceCannot please heaven, and I know your officeVnjustly is atcheev'd.ARCITE.If a good title,I am perswaded this question sicke between'sBy bleeding must be cur'd.  I am a Suitour,That to your Sword you will bequeath this pleaAnd talke of it no more.PALAMON.But this one word:You are going now to gaze upon my Mistris,For note you, mine she is--ARCITE.Nay, then.PALAMON.Nay, pray you,You talke of feeding me to breed me strength:You are going now to looke upon a SunThat strengthens what it lookes on; thereYou have a vantage ore me, but enjoy't tillI may enforce my remedy.  Farewell.  [Exeunt.]Scaena 2.  (Another Part of the forest.)[Enter Iaylors daughter alone.]DAUGHTER.He has mistooke the Brake I meant, is goneAfter his fancy.  Tis now welnigh morning;No matter, would it were perpetuall night,And darkenes Lord o'th world.  Harke, tis a woolfe:In me hath greife slaine feare, and but for one thingI care for nothing, and that's Palamon.I wreake not if the wolves would jaw me, soHe had this File: what if I hallowd for him?I cannot hallow: if I whoop'd, what then?If he not answeard, I should call a wolfe,And doe him but that service.  I have heardStrange howles this live-long night, why may't not beThey have made prey of him? he has no weapons,He cannot run, the Iengling of his GivesMight call fell things to listen, who have in themA sence to know a man unarmd, and canSmell where resistance is.  Ile set it downeHe's torne to peeces; they howld many togetherAnd then they fed on him: So much for that,Be bold to ring the Bell; how stand I then?All's char'd when he is gone.  No, no, I lye,My Father's to be hang'd for his escape;My selfe to beg, if I prizd life so muchAs to deny my act, but that I would not,Should I try death by dussons.--I am mop't,Food tooke I none these two daies,Sipt some water.  I have not closd mine eyesSave when my lids scowrd off their brine; alas,Dissolue my life, Let not my sence unsettle,Least I should drowne, or stab or hang my selfe.O state of Nature, faile together in me,Since thy best props are warpt! So, which way now?The best way is the next way to a grave:Each errant step beside is torment.  Loe,The Moone is down, the Cryckets chirpe, the SchreichowleCalls in the dawne; all offices are doneSave what I faile in: But the point is this,An end, and that is all.  [Exit.]Scaena 3.  (Same as Scene I.)[Enter Arcite, with Meate, Wine, and Files.]ARCITE.I should be neere the place: hoa, Cosen Palamon.  [EnterPalamon.]PALAMON.Arcite?ARCITE.The same: I have brought you foode and files.Come forth and feare not, here's no Theseus.PALAMON.Nor none so honest, Arcite.ARCITE.That's no matter,Wee'l argue that hereafter: Come, take courage;You shall not dye thus beastly: here, Sir, drinke;I know you are faint: then ile talke further with you.PALAMON.Arcite, thou mightst now poyson me.ARCITE.I might,But I must feare you first: Sit downe, and, good, nowNo more of these vaine parlies; let us not,Having our ancient reputation with us,Make talke for Fooles and Cowards.  To your health, &c.PALAMON.Doe.ARCITE.Pray, sit downe then; and let me entreate you,By all the honesty and honour in you,No mention of this woman: t'will disturbe us;We shall have time enough.PALAMON.Well, Sir, Ile pledge you.ARCITE.Drinke a good hearty draught; it breeds good blood, man.Doe not you feele it thaw you?PALAMON.Stay, Ile tell you after a draught or two more.ARCITE.Spare it not, the Duke has more, Cuz: Eate now.PALAMON.Yes.ARCITE.I am glad you have so good a stomach.PALAMON.I am gladder I have so good meate too't.ARCITE.Is't not mad lodging here in the wild woods, Cosen?PALAMON.Yes, for them that have wilde Consciences.ARCITE.How tasts your vittails? your hunger needs no sawce, I see.PALAMON.Not much;But if it did, yours is too tart, sweete Cosen: what is this?ARCITE.Venison.PALAMON.Tis a lusty meate:Giue me more wine; here, Arcite, to the wenchesWe have known in our daies.  The Lord Stewards daughter,Doe you remember her?ARCITE.After you, Cuz.PALAMON.She lov'd a black-haird man.ARCITE.She did so; well, Sir.PALAMON.And I have heard some call him Arcite, and--ARCITE.Out with't, faith.PALAMON.She met him in an Arbour:What did she there, Cuz? play o'th virginals?ARCITE.Something she did, Sir.PALAMON.Made her groane a moneth for't, or 2. or 3. or 10.ARCITE.The Marshals SisterHad her share too, as I remember, Cosen,Else there be tales abroade; you'l pledge her?PALAMON.Yes.ARCITE.A pretty broune wench t'is.  There was a timeWhen yong men went a hunting, and a wood,And a broade Beech: and thereby hangs a tale:--heigh ho!PALAMON.For Emily, upon my life!  Foole,Away with this straind mirth; I say againe,That sigh was breathd for Emily; base Cosen,Dar'st thou breake first?ARCITE.You are wide.PALAMON.By heaven and earth, ther's nothing in thee honest.ARCITE.Then Ile leave you: you are a Beast now.PALAMON.As thou makst me, Traytour.ARCITE.Ther's all things needfull, files and shirts, and perfumes:Ile come againe some two howres hence, and bringThat that shall quiet all,PALAMON.A Sword and Armour?ARCITE.Feare me not; you are now too fowle; farewell.Get off your Trinkets; you shall want nought.PALAMON.Sir, ha--ARCITE.Ile heare no more.  [Exit.]PALAMON.If he keepe touch, he dies for't.  [Exit.]Scaena 4.  (Another part of the forest.)[Enter Iaylors daughter.]DAUGHTER.I am very cold, and all the Stars are out too,The little Stars, and all, that looke like aglets:The Sun has seene my Folly.  Palamon!Alas no; hees in heaven.  Where am I now?Yonder's the sea, and ther's a Ship; how't tumbles!And ther's a Rocke lies watching under water;Now, now, it beates upon it; now, now, now,Ther's a leak sprung, a sound one, how they cry!Spoon her before the winde, you'l loose all els:Vp with a course or two, and take about, Boyes.Good night, good night, y'ar gone.--I am very hungry.Would I could finde a fine Frog; he would tell meNewes from all parts o'th world, then would I makeA Carecke of a Cockle shell, and sayleBy east and North East to the King of Pigmes,For he tels fortunes rarely.  Now my Father,Twenty to one, is trust up in a triceTo morrow morning; Ile say never a word.[Sing.]For ile cut my greene coat a foote above my knee,And ile clip my yellow lockes an inch below mine eie.hey, nonny, nonny, nonny,He's buy me a white Cut, forth for to rideAnd ile goe seeke him, throw the world that is so widehey nonny, nonny, nonny.O for a pricke now like a Nightingale,To put my breast against.  I shall sleepe like a Top else.[Exit.]Scaena 5.  (Another part of the forest.)[Enter a Schoole master, 4. Countrymen, and Bavian. 2. or 3.wenches, with a Taborer.]SCHOOLMASTER.Fy, fy, what tediosity, & disensanity is here among ye? havemy Rudiments bin labourd so long with ye? milkd unto ye, andby a figure even the very plumbroth & marrow of my understandinglaid upon ye? and do you still cry: where, and how, & wherfore?you most course freeze capacities, ye jane Iudgements, have Isaide:thus let be, and there let be, and then let be, and no manunderstandmee?  Proh deum, medius fidius, ye are all dunces!  For why, herestand I, Here the Duke comes, there are you close in the Thicket;the Duke appeares, I meete him and unto him I utter learnedthingsand many figures; he heares, and nods, and hums, and then cries:rare, and I goe forward; at length I fling my Cap up; markethere;then do you, as once did Meleager and the Bore, break comly outbefore him: like true lovers, cast your selves in a Bodydecently,and sweetly, by a figure trace and turne, Boyes.1. COUNTREYMAN.And sweetly we will doe it Master Gerrold.2. COUNTREYMAN.Draw up the Company.  Where's the Taborour?3. COUNTREYMAN.Why, Timothy!TABORER.Here, my mad boyes, have at ye.SCHOOLMASTER.But I say, where's their women?4. COUNTREYMAN.Here's Friz and Maudline.2. COUNTREYMAN.And little Luce with the white legs, and bouncing Barbery.1. COUNTREYMAN.And freckeled Nel, that never faild her Master.SCHOOLMASTER.Wher be your Ribands, maids? swym with your BodiesAnd carry it sweetly, and deliverlyAnd now and then a fauour, and a friske.NEL.Let us alone, Sir.SCHOOLMASTER.Wher's the rest o'th Musicke?3. COUNTREYMAN.Dispersd as you commanded.SCHOOLMASTER.Couple, then,And see what's wanting; wher's the Bavian?My friend, carry your taile without offenceOr scandall to the Ladies; and be sureYou tumble with audacity and manhood;And when you barke, doe it with judgement.BAVIAN.Yes, Sir.SCHOOLMASTER.Quo usque tandem?  Here is a woman wanting.4. COUNTREYMAN.We may goe whistle: all the fat's i'th fire.SCHOOLMASTER.We have,As learned Authours utter, washd a Tile,We have beene FATUUS, and laboured vainely.2. COUNTREYMAN.This is that scornefull peece, that scurvy hilding,That gave her promise faithfully, she would be here,Cicely the Sempsters daughter:The next gloves that I give her shall be dog skin;Nay and she faile me once--you can tell, Arcas,She swore by wine and bread, she would not breake.SCHOOLMASTER.An Eele and woman,A learned Poet sayes, unles by'th taileAnd with thy teeth thou hold, will either faile.In manners this was false position1. COUNTREYMAN.A fire ill take her; do's she flinch now?3. COUNTREYMAN.WhatShall we determine, Sir?SCHOOLMASTER.Nothing.Our busines is become a nullity;Yea, and a woefull, and a pittious nullity.4. COUNTREYMAN.Now when the credite of our Towne lay on it,Now to be frampall, now to pisse o'th nettle!Goe thy waies; ile remember thee, ile fit thee.[Enter Iaylors daughter.]DAUGHTER.[Sings.]The George alow came from the South,From the coast of Barbary a.And there he met with brave gallants of warBy one, by two, by three, a.Well haild, well haild, you jolly gallants,And whither now are you bound a?O let me have your company  [Chaire and stooles out.]Till (I) come to the sound a.There was three fooles, fell out about an howlet:The one sed it was an owle,The other he sed nay,The third he sed it was a hawke,And her bels wer cut away.3. COUNTREYMAN.Ther's a dainty mad woman M(aiste)rComes i'th Nick, as mad as a march hare:If wee can get her daunce, wee are made againe:I warrant her, shee'l doe the rarest gambols.1. COUNTREYMAN.A mad woman? we are made, Boyes.SCHOOLMASTER.And are you mad, good woman?DAUGHTER.I would be sorry else;Give me your hand.SCHOOLMASTER.Why?DAUGHTER.I can tell your fortune.You are a foole: tell ten.  I have pozd him: Buz!Friend you must eate no whitebread; if you doe,Your teeth will bleede extreamely.  Shall we dance, ho?I know you, y'ar a Tinker: Sirha Tinker,Stop no more holes, but what you should.SCHOOLMASTER.Dij boni.  A Tinker, Damzell?DAUGHTER.Or a Conjurer:Raise me a devill now, and let him playQuipassa o'th bels and bones.SCHOOLMASTER.Goe, take her,And fluently perswade her to a peace:Et opus exegi, quod nec Iouis ira, nec ignis.Strike up, and leade her in.2. COUNTREYMAN.Come, Lasse, lets trip it.DAUGHTER.Ile leade.  [Winde Hornes.]3. COUNTREYMAN.Doe, doe.SCHOOLMASTER.Perswasively, and cunningly: away, boyes,  [Ex. all butSchoolemaster.]I heare the hornes: give me some meditation,And marke your Cue.--Pallas inspire me.[Enter Thes. Pir. Hip. Emil. Arcite, and traine.]THESEUS.This way the Stag tooke.SCHOOLMASTER.Stay, and edifie.THESEUS.What have we here?PERITHOUS.Some Countrey sport, upon my life, Sir.THESEUS.Well, Sir, goe forward, we will edifie.Ladies, sit downe, wee'l stay it.SCHOOLMASTER.Thou, doughtie Duke, all haile: all haile, sweet Ladies.THESEUS.This is a cold beginning.SCHOOLMASTER.If you but favour, our Country pastime made is.We are a few of those collected here,That ruder Tongues distinguish villager;And to say veritie, and not to fable,We are a merry rout, or else a rable,Or company, or, by a figure, Choris,That fore thy dignitie will dance a Morris.And I, that am the rectifier of all,By title Pedagogus, that let fallThe Birch upon the breeches of the small ones,And humble with a Ferula the tall ones,Doe here present this Machine, or this frame:And daintie Duke, whose doughtie dismall fameFrom Dis to Dedalus, from post to pillar,Is blowne abroad, helpe me thy poore well willer,And with thy twinckling eyes looke right and straightVpon this mighty MORR--of mickle waight;IS now comes in, which being glewd together,Makes MORRIS, and the cause that we came hether.The body of our sport, of no small study,I first appeare, though rude, and raw, and muddy,To speake before thy noble grace this tenner:At whose great feete I offer up my penner.The next the Lord of May and Lady bright,The Chambermaid and Servingman by nightThat seeke out silent hanging: Then mine HostAnd his fat Spowse, that welcomes to their costThe gauled Traveller, and with a beckningInformes the Tapster to inflame the reckning:Then the beast eating Clowne, and next the foole,The Bavian, with long tayle and eke long toole,Cum multis alijs that make a dance:Say 'I,' and all shall presently advance.THESEUS.I, I, by any meanes, deere Domine.PERITHOUS.Produce.(SCHOOLMASTER.)Intrate, filij; Come forth, and foot it.--[Musicke, Dance.  Knocke for Schoole.][Enter the Dance.]Ladies, if we have beene merry,And have pleasd yee with a derry,And a derry, and a downe,Say the Schoolemaster's no Clowne:Duke, if we have pleasd thee too,And have done as good Boyes should doe,Give us but a tree or twaineFor a Maypole, and againe,Ere another yeare run out,Wee'l make thee laugh and all this rout.THESEUS.Take 20., Domine; how does my sweet heart?HIPPOLITA.Never so pleasd, Sir.EMILIA.Twas an excellent dance, and for a prefaceI never heard a better.THESEUS.Schoolemaster, I thanke you.--One see'em all rewarded.PERITHOUS.And heer's something to paint your Pole withall.THESEUS.Now to our sports againe.SCHOOLMASTER.May the Stag thou huntst stand long,And thy dogs be swift and strong:May they kill him without lets,And the Ladies eate his dowsets!Come, we are all made.  [Winde Hornes.]Dij Deoeq(ue) omnes, ye have danc'd rarely, wenches.  [Exeunt.]Scaena 6.  (Same as Scene III.)[Enter Palamon from the Bush.]PALAMON.About this houre my Cosen gave his faithTo visit me againe, and with him bringTwo Swords, and two good Armors; if he faile,He's neither man nor Souldier.  When he left me,I did not thinke a weeke could have restordMy lost strength to me, I was growne so low,And Crest-falne with my wants: I thanke thee, Arcite,Thou art yet a faire Foe; and I feele my selfeWith this refreshing, able once againeTo out dure danger: To delay it longerWould make the world think, when it comes to hearing,That I lay fatting like a Swine to fight,And not a Souldier: Therefore, this blest morningShall be the last; and that Sword he refuses,If it but hold, I kill him with; tis Iustice:So love, and Fortune for me!--O, good morrow.[Enter Arcite with Armors and Swords.]ARCITE.Good morrow, noble kinesman.PALAMON.I have put you to too much paines, Sir.ARCITE.That too much, faire Cosen,Is but a debt to honour, and my duty.PALAMON.Would you were so in all, Sir; I could wish yeAs kinde a kinsman, as you force me findeA beneficiall foe, that my embracesMight thanke ye, not my blowes.ARCITE.I shall thinke either, well done,A noble recompence.PALAMON.Then I shall quit you.ARCITE.Defy me in these faire termes, and you showMore then a Mistris to me, no more angerAs you love any thing that's honourable:We were not bred to talke, man; when we are arm'dAnd both upon our guards, then let our fury,Like meeting of two tides, fly strongly from us,And then to whom the birthright of this BeautyTruely pertaines (without obbraidings, scornes,Dispisings of our persons, and such powtings,Fitter for Girles and Schooleboyes) will be seeneAnd quickly, yours, or mine: wilt please you arme, Sir,Or if you feele your selfe not fitting yetAnd furnishd with your old strength, ile stay, Cosen,And ev'ry day discourse you into health,As I am spard: your person I am friends with,And I could wish I had not saide I lov'd her,Though I had dide; But loving such a LadyAnd justifying my Love, I must not fly from't.PALAMON.Arcite, thou art so brave an enemy,That no man but thy Cosen's fit to kill thee:I am well and lusty, choose your Armes.ARCITE.Choose you, Sir.PALAMON.Wilt thou exceede in all, or do'st thou doe itTo make me spare thee?ARCITE.If you thinke so, Cosen,You are deceived, for as I am a Soldier,I will not spare you.PALAMON.That's well said.ARCITE.You'l finde it.PALAMON.Then, as I am an honest man and loveWith all the justice of affection,Ile pay thee soundly.  This ile take.ARCITE.That's mine, then;Ile arme you first.PALAMON.Do: pray thee, tell me, Cosen,Where gotst thou this good Armour?ARCITE.Tis the Dukes,And to say true, I stole it; doe I pinch you?PALAMON.Noe.ARCITE.Is't not too heavie?PALAMON.I have worne a lighter,But I shall make it serve.ARCITE.Ile buckl't close.PALAMON.By any meanes.ARCITE.You care not for a Grand guard?PALAMON.No, no; wee'l use no horses: I perceaveYou would faine be at that Fight.ARCITE.I am indifferent.PALAMON.Faith, so am I: good Cosen, thrust the buckleThrough far enough.ARCITE.I warrant you.PALAMON.My Caske now.ARCITE.Will you fight bare-armd?PALAMON.We shall be the nimbler.ARCITE.But use your Gauntlets though; those are o'th least,Prethee take mine, good Cosen.PALAMON.Thanke you, Arcite.How doe I looke? am I falne much away?ARCITE.Faith, very little; love has usd you kindly.PALAMON.Ile warrant thee, Ile strike home.ARCITE.Doe, and spare not;Ile give you cause, sweet Cosen.PALAMON.Now to you, Sir:Me thinkes this Armor's very like that, Arcite,Thou wor'st the day the 3. Kings fell, but lighter.ARCITE.That was a very good one; and that day,I well remember, you outdid me, Cosen.I never saw such valour: when you chargdVpon the left wing of the Enemie,I spurd hard to come up, and under meI had a right good horse.PALAMON.You had indeede; a bright Bay, I remember.ARCITE.Yes, but allWas vainely labour'd in me; you outwent me,Nor could my wishes reach you; yet a littleI did by imitation.PALAMON.More by vertue;You are modest, Cosen.ARCITE.When I saw you charge first,Me thought I heard a dreadfull clap of ThunderBreake from the Troope.PALAMON.But still before that flewThe lightning of your valour.  Stay a little,Is not this peece too streight?ARCITE.No, no, tis well.PALAMON.I would have nothing hurt thee but my Sword,A bruise would be dishonour.ARCITE.Now I am perfect.PALAMON.Stand off, then.ARCITE.Take my Sword, I hold it better.PALAMON.I thanke ye: No, keepe it; your life lyes on it.Here's one; if it but hold, I aske no moreFor all my hopes: My Cause and honour guard me!  [They bow severall wayes: then advance and stand.]ARCITE.And me my love!  Is there ought else to say?PALAMON.This onely, and no more: Thou art mine Aunts Son,And that blood we desire to shed is mutuall;In me, thine, and in thee, mine.  My SwordIs in my hand, and if thou killst me,The gods and I forgive thee; If there beA place prepar'd for those that sleepe in honour,I wish his wearie soule that falls may win it:Fight bravely, Cosen; give me thy noble hand.ARCITE.Here, Palamon: This hand shall never moreCome neare thee with such friendship.PALAMON.I commend thee.ARCITE.If I fall, curse me, and say I was a coward,For none but such dare die in these just Tryalls.Once more farewell, my Cosen.PALAMON.Farewell, Arcite.  [Fight.][Hornes within: they stand.]ARCITE.Loe, Cosen, loe, our Folly has undon us.PALAMON.Why?ARCITE.This is the Duke, a hunting as I told you.If we be found, we are wretched.  O retireFor honours sake, and safety presentlyInto your Bush agen; Sir, we shall findeToo many howres to dye in: gentle Cosen,If you be seene you perish instantlyFor breaking prison, and I, if you reveale me,For my contempt.  Then all the world will scorne us,And say we had a noble difference,But base disposers of it.PALAMON.No, no, Cosen,I will no more be hidden, nor put offThis great adventure to a second Tryall:I know your cunning, and I know your cause;He that faints now, shame take him: put thy selfeVpon thy present guard--ARCITE.You are not mad?PALAMON.Or I will make th'advantage of this howreMine owne, and what to come shall threaten me,I feare lesse then my fortune: know, weake Cosen,I love Emilia, and in that ile buryThee, and all crosses else.ARCITE.Then, come what can come,Thou shalt know, Palamon, I dare as wellDie, as discourse, or sleepe: Onely this feares me,The law will have the honour of our ends.Have at thy life.PALAMON.Looke to thine owne well, Arcite.  [Fight againe.  Hornes.][Enter Theseus, Hipolita, Emilia, Perithous and traine.]THESEUS.What ignorant and mad malicious Traitors,Are you, That gainst the tenor of my LawesAre making Battaile, thus like Knights appointed,Without my leave, and Officers of Armes?By Castor, both shall dye.PALAMON.Hold thy word, Theseus.We are certainly both Traitors, both despisersOf thee and of thy goodnesse: I am Palamon,That cannot love thee, he that broke thy Prison;Thinke well what that deserves: and this is Arcite,A bolder Traytor never trod thy ground,A Falser neu'r seem'd friend: This is the manWas begd and banish'd; this is he contemnes theeAnd what thou dar'st doe, and in this disguiseAgainst thy owne Edict followes thy Sister,That fortunate bright Star, the faire Emilia,Whose servant, (if there be a right in seeing,And first bequeathing of the soule to) justlyI am, and, which is more, dares thinke her his.This treacherie, like a most trusty Lover,I call'd him now to answer; if thou bee'st,As thou art spoken, great and vertuous,The true descider of all injuries,Say, 'Fight againe,' and thou shalt see me, Theseus,Doe such a Iustice, thou thy selfe wilt envie.Then take my life; Ile wooe thee too't.PERITHOUS.O heaven,What more then man is this!THESEUS.I have sworne.ARCITE.We seeke notThy breath of mercy, Theseus.  Tis to meA thing as soone to dye, as thee to say it,And no more mov'd: where this man calls me Traitor,Let me say thus much: if in love be Treason,In service of so excellent a Beutie,As I love most, and in that faith will perish,As I have brought my life here to confirme it,As I have serv'd her truest, worthiest,As I dare kill this Cosen, that denies it,So let me be most Traitor, and ye please me.For scorning thy Edict, Duke, aske that LadyWhy she is faire, and why her eyes command meStay here to love her; and if she say 'Traytor,'I am a villaine fit to lye unburied.PALAMON.Thou shalt have pitty of us both, o Theseus,If unto neither thou shew mercy; stop(As thou art just) thy noble eare against us.As thou art valiant, for thy Cosens souleWhose 12. strong labours crowne his memory,Lets die together, at one instant, Duke,Onely a little let him fall before me,That I may tell my Soule he shall not have her.THESEUS.I grant your wish, for, to say true, your CosenHas ten times more offended; for I gave himMore mercy then you found, Sir, your offensesBeing no more then his.  None here speake for 'em,For, ere the Sun set, both shall sleepe for ever.HIPPOLITA.Alas the pitty! now or never, Sister,Speake, not to be denide; That face of yoursWill beare the curses else of after agesFor these lost Cosens.EMILIA.In my face, deare Sister,I finde no anger to 'em, nor no ruyn;The misadventure of their owne eyes kill 'em;Yet that I will be woman, and have pitty,My knees shall grow to'th ground but Ile get mercie.Helpe me, deare Sister; in a deede so vertuousThe powers of all women will be with us.Most royall Brother--HIPPOLITA.Sir, by our tye of Marriage--EMILIA.By your owne spotlesse honour--HIPPOLITA.By that faith,That faire hand, and that honest heart you gave me.EMILIA.By that you would have pitty in another,By your owne vertues infinite.HIPPOLITA.By valour,By all the chaste nights I have ever pleasd you.THESEUS.These are strange Conjurings.PERITHOUS.Nay, then, Ile in too:By all our friendship, Sir, by all our dangers,By all you love most: warres and this sweet Lady.EMILIA.By that you would have trembled to deny,A blushing Maide.HIPPOLITA.By your owne eyes: By strength,In which you swore I went beyond all women,Almost all men, and yet I yeelded, Theseus.PERITHOUS.To crowne all this: By your most noble soule,Which cannot want due mercie, I beg first.HIPPOLITA.Next, heare my prayers.EMILIA.Last, let me intreate, Sir.PERITHOUS.For mercy.HIPPOLITA.Mercy.EMILIA.Mercy on these Princes.THESEUS.Ye make my faith reele: Say I feltCompassion to'em both, how would you place it?EMILIA.Vpon their lives: But with their banishments.THESEUS.You are a right woman, Sister; you have pitty,But want the vnderstanding where to use it.If you desire their lives, invent a waySafer then banishment: Can these two liveAnd have the agony of love about 'em,And not kill one another?  Every dayThey'ld fight about you; howrely bring your honourIn publique question with their Swords.  Be wise, then,And here forget 'em; it concernes your creditAnd my oth equally: I have said they die;Better they fall by'th law, then one another.Bow not my honor.EMILIA.O my noble Brother,That oth was rashly made, and in your anger,Your reason will not hold it; if such vowesStand for expresse will, all the world must perish.Beside, I have another oth gainst yours,Of more authority, I am sure more love,Not made in passion neither, but good heede.THESEUS.What is it, Sister?PERITHOUS.Vrge it home, brave Lady.EMILIA.That you would nev'r deny me any thingFit for my modest suit, and your free granting:I tye you to your word now; if ye fall in't,Thinke how you maime your honour,(For now I am set a begging, Sir, I am deafeTo all but your compassion.)  How, their livesMight breed the ruine of my name, Opinion!Shall any thing that loves me perish for me?That were a cruell wisedome; doe men proyneThe straight yong Bowes that blush with thousand Blossoms,Because they may be rotten?  O Duke Theseus,The goodly Mothers that have groand for these,And all the longing Maides that ever lov'd,If your vow stand, shall curse me and my Beauty,And in their funerall songs for these two CosensDespise my crueltie, and cry woe worth me,Till I am nothing but the scorne of women;For heavens sake save their lives, and banish 'em.THESEUS.On what conditions?EMILIA.Sweare'em never moreTo make me their Contention, or to know me,To tread upon thy Dukedome; and to be,Where ever they shall travel, ever strangersTo one another.PALAMON.Ile be cut a peecesBefore I take this oth: forget I love her?O all ye gods dispise me, then!  Thy BanishmentI not mislike, so we may fairely carryOur Swords and cause along: else, never trifle,But take our lives, Duke: I must love and will,And for that love must and dare kill this CosenOn any peece the earth has.THESEUS.Will you, Arcite,Take these conditions?PALAMON.He's a villaine, then.PERITHOUS.These are men.ARCITE.No, never, Duke: Tis worse to me than beggingTo take my life so basely; though I thinkeI never shall enjoy her, yet ile preserveThe honour of affection, and dye for her,Make death a Devill.THESEUS.What may be done? for now I feele compassion.PERITHOUS.Let it not fall agen, Sir.THESEUS.Say, Emilia,If one of them were dead, as one must, are youContent to take th'other to your husband?They cannot both enjoy you; They are PrincesAs goodly as your owne eyes, and as nobleAs ever fame yet spoke of; looke upon 'em,And if you can love, end this difference.I give consent; are you content too, Princes?BOTH.With all our soules.THESEUS.He that she refusesMust dye, then.BOTH.Any death thou canst invent, Duke.PALAMON.If I fall from that mouth, I fall with favour,And Lovers yet unborne shall blesse my ashes.ARCITE.If she refuse me, yet my grave will wed me,And Souldiers sing my Epitaph.THESEUS.Make choice, then.EMILIA.I cannot, Sir, they are both too excellent:For me, a hayre shall never fall of these men.HIPPOLITA.What will become of 'em?THESEUS.Thus I ordaine it;And by mine honor, once againe, it stands,Or both shall dye:--You shall both to your Countrey,And each within this moneth, accompaniedWith three faire Knights, appeare againe in this place,In which Ile plant a Pyramid; and whether,Before us that are here, can force his CosenBy fayre and knightly strength to touch the Pillar,He shall enjoy her: the other loose his head,And all his friends; Nor shall he grudge to fall,Nor thinke he dies with interest in this Lady:Will this content yee?PALAMON.Yes: here, Cosen Arcite,I am friends againe, till that howre.ARCITE.I embrace ye.THESEUS.Are you content, Sister?EMILIA.Yes, I must, Sir,Els both miscarry.THESEUS.Come, shake hands againe, then;And take heede, as you are Gentlemen, this QuarrellSleepe till the howre prefixt; and hold your course.PALAMON.We dare not faile thee, Theseus.THESEUS.Come, Ile give yeNow usage like to Princes, and to Friends:When ye returne, who wins, Ile settle heere;Who looses, yet Ile weepe upon his Beere.  [Exeunt.]Actus Quartus.Scaena 1.  (Athens.  A room in the prison.)[Enter Iailor and his friend.]IAILOR.Heare you no more? was nothing saide of meConcerning the escape of Palamon?Good Sir, remember.1. FRIEND.Nothing that I heard,For I came home before the businesWas fully ended: Yet I might perceive,Ere I departed, a great likelihoodOf both their pardons: For Hipolita,And faire-eyd Emilie, upon their kneesBegd with such hansom pitty, that the DukeMe thought stood staggering, whether he should followHis rash oth, or the sweet compassionOf those two Ladies; and to second them,That truely noble Prince Perithous,Halfe his owne heart, set in too, that I hopeAll shall be well: Neither heard I one questionOf your name or his scape.[Enter 2. Friend.]IAILOR.Pray heaven it hold so.2. FRIEND.Be of good comfort, man; I bring you newes,Good newes.IAILOR.They are welcome,2. FRIEND.Palamon has cleerd you,And got your pardon, and discoverd howAnd by whose meanes he escapt, which was your Daughters,Whose pardon is procurd too; and the Prisoner,Not to be held ungratefull to her goodnes,Has given a summe of money to her Marriage,A large one, ile assure you.IAILOR.Ye are a good manAnd ever bring good newes.1. FRIEND.How was it ended?2. FRIEND.Why, as it should be; they that nev'r begdBut they prevaild, had their suites fairely granted,The prisoners have their lives.1. FRIEND.I knew t'would be so.2. FRIEND.But there be new conditions, which you'l heare ofAt better time.IAILOR.I hope they are good.2. FRIEND.They are honourable,How good they'l prove, I know not.[Enter Wooer.]1. FRIEND.T'will be knowne.WOOER.Alas, Sir, wher's your Daughter?IAILOR.Why doe you aske?WOOER.O, Sir, when did you see her?2. FRIEND.How he lookes?IAILOR.This morning.WOOER.Was she well? was she in health, Sir?When did she sleepe?1. FRIEND.These are strange Questions.IAILOR.I doe not thinke she was very well, for nowYou make me minde her, but this very dayI ask'd her questions, and she answered meSo farre from what she was, so childishly,So sillily, as if she were a foole,An Inocent, and I was very angry.But what of her, Sir?WOOER.Nothing but my pitty;But you must know it, and as good by meAs by an other that lesse loves her--IAILOR.Well, Sir.1. FRIEND.Not right?2. FRIEND.Not well?WOOER.No, Sir, not well.Tis too true, she is mad.1. FRIEND.It cannot be.WOOER.Beleeve, you'l finde it so.IAILOR.I halfe suspectedWhat you (have) told me: the gods comfort her:Either this was her love to Palamon,Or feare of my miscarrying on his scape,Or both.WOOER.Tis likely.IAILOR.But why all this haste, Sir?WOOER.Ile tell you quickly.  As I late was anglingIn the great Lake that lies behind the Pallace,From the far shore, thicke set with reedes and Sedges,As patiently I was attending sport,I heard a voyce, a shrill one, and attentiveI gave my eare, when I might well perceiveT'was one that sung, and by the smallnesse of itA boy or woman.  I then left my angleTo his owne skill, came neere, but yet perceivd notWho made the sound, the rushes and the ReedsHad so encompast it: I laide me downeAnd listned to the words she sung, for then,Through a small glade cut by the Fisher men,I saw it was your Daughter.IAILOR.Pray, goe on, Sir?WOOER.She sung much, but no sence; onely I heard herRepeat this often: 'Palamon is gone,Is gone to'th wood to gather Mulberies;Ile finde him out to morrow.'1. FRIEND.Pretty soule.WOOER.'His shackles will betray him, hee'l be taken,And what shall I doe then?  Ile bring a beavy,A hundred blacke eyd Maides, that love as I doe,With Chaplets on their heads of Daffadillies,With cherry-lips, and cheekes of Damaske Roses,And all wee'l daunce an Antique fore the Duke,And beg his pardon.'  Then she talk'd of you, Sir;That you must loose your head to morrow morning,And she must gather flowers to bury you,And see the house made handsome: then she sungNothing but 'Willow, willow, willow,' and betweeneEver was, 'Palamon, faire Palamon,'And 'Palamon was a tall yong man.'  The placeWas knee deepe where she sat; her careles TressesA wreathe of bull-rush rounded; about her stuckeThousand fresh water flowers of severall cullors,That me thought she appeard like the faire NimphThat feedes the lake with waters, or as IrisNewly dropt downe from heaven; Rings she madeOf rushes that grew by, and to 'em spokeThe prettiest posies: 'Thus our true love's tide,''This you may loose, not me,' and many a one:And then she wept, and sung againe, and sigh'd,And with the same breath smil'd, and kist her hand.2. FRIEND.Alas, what pitty it is!WOOER.I made in to her.She saw me, and straight sought the flood; I sav'd her,And set her safe to land: when presentlyShe slipt away, and to the Citty made,With such a cry and swiftnes, that, beleeve me,Shee left me farre behinde her; three or foureI saw from farre off crosse her, one of 'emI knew to be your brother; where she staid,And fell, scarce to be got away: I left them with her,  [Enter Brother, Daughter, and others.]And hether came to tell you.  Here they are.DAUGHTER.  [sings.]May you never more enjoy the light, &c.Is not this a fine Song?BROTHER.O, a very fine one.DAUGHTER.I can sing twenty more.BROTHER.I thinke you can.DAUGHTER.Yes, truely, can I; I can sing the Broome,And Bony Robin.  Are not you a tailour?BROTHER.Yes.DAUGHTER.Wher's my wedding Gowne?BROTHER.Ile bring it to morrow.DAUGHTER.Doe, very rarely; I must be abroad elseTo call the Maides, and pay the Minstrels,For I must loose my Maydenhead by cock-light;Twill never thrive else.[Singes.]  O faire, oh sweete, &c.BROTHER.You must ev'n take it patiently.IAILOR.Tis true.DAUGHTER.Good ev'n, good men; pray, did you ever heareOf one yong Palamon?IAILOR.Yes, wench, we know him.DAUGHTER.Is't not a fine yong Gentleman?IAILOR.Tis Love.BROTHER.By no meane crosse her; she is then distemperdFar worse then now she showes.1. FRIEND.Yes, he's a fine man.DAUGHTER.O, is he so? you have a Sister?1. FRIEND.Yes.DAUGHTER.But she shall never have him, tell her so,For a tricke that I know; y'had best looke to her,For if she see him once, she's gone, she's done,And undon in an howre.  All the young MaydesOf our Towne are in love with him, but I laugh at 'emAnd let 'em all alone; Is't not a wise course?1. FRIEND.Yes.DAUGHTER.There is at least two hundred now with child by him--There must be fowre; yet I keepe close for all this,Close as a Cockle; and all these must be Boyes,He has the tricke on't, and at ten yeares oldThey must be all gelt for Musitians,And sing the wars of Theseus.2. FRIEND.This is strange.DAUGHTER.As ever you heard, but say nothing.1. FRIEND.No.DAUGHTER.They come from all parts of the Dukedome to him;Ile warrant ye, he had not so few last nightAs twenty to dispatch: hee'l tickl't upIn two howres, if his hand be in.IAILOR.She's lostPast all cure.BROTHER.Heaven forbid, man.DAUGHTER.Come hither, you are a wise man.1. FRIEND.Do's she know him?2. FRIEND.No, would she did.DAUGHTER.You are master of a Ship?IAILOR.Yes.DAUGHTER.Wher's your Compasse?IAILOR.Heere.DAUGHTER.Set it too'th North.And now direct your course to'th wood, wher PalamonLyes longing for me; For the TacklingLet me alone; Come, waygh, my hearts, cheerely!ALL.Owgh, owgh, owgh, tis up, the wind's faire,Top the Bowling, out with the maine saile;Wher's your Whistle, Master?BROTHER.Lets get her in.IAILOR.Vp to the top, Boy.BROTHER.Wher's the Pilot?1. FRIEND.Heere.DAUGHTER.What ken'st thou?2. FRIEND.A faire wood.DAUGHTER.Beare for it, master: take about!  [Singes.]When Cinthia with her borrowed light, &c.  [Exeunt.]Scaena 2.  (A Room in the Palace.)[Enter Emilia alone, with 2. Pictures.]EMILIA.Yet I may binde those wounds up, that must openAnd bleed to death for my sake else; Ile choose,And end their strife: Two such yong hansom menShall never fall for me, their weeping Mothers,Following the dead cold ashes of their Sonnes,Shall never curse my cruelty.  Good heaven,What a sweet face has Arcite! if wise nature,With all her best endowments, all those beutiesShe sowes into the birthes of noble bodies,Were here a mortall woman, and had in herThe coy denialls of yong Maydes, yet doubtles,She would run mad for this man: what an eye,Of what a fyry sparkle, and quick sweetnes,Has this yong Prince!  Here Love himselfe sits smyling,Iust such another wanton GanimeadSet Jove a fire with, and enforcd the godSnatch up the goodly Boy, and set him by himA shining constellation: What a brow,Of what a spacious Majesty, he carries!Arch'd like the great eyd Iuno's, but far sweeter,Smoother then Pelops Shoulder!  Fame and honour,Me thinks, from hence, as from a PromontoryPointed in heaven, should clap their wings, and singTo all the under world the Loves and FightsOf gods, and such men neere 'em.  PalamonIs but his foyle, to him a meere dull shadow:Hee's swarth and meagre, of an eye as heavyAs if he had lost his mother; a still temper,No stirring in him, no alacrity,Of all this sprightly sharpenes not a smile;Yet these that we count errours may become him:Narcissus was a sad Boy, but a heavenly:--Oh who can finde the bent of womans fancy?I am a Foole, my reason is lost in me;I have no choice, and I have ly'd so lewdlyThat women ought to beate me.  On my kneesI aske thy pardon, Palamon; thou art alone,And only beutifull, and these the eyes,These the bright lamps of beauty, that commandAnd threaten Love, and what yong Mayd dare crosse 'em?What a bold gravity, and yet inviting,Has this browne manly face!  O Love, this onlyFrom this howre is Complexion: Lye there, Arcite,Thou art a changling to him, a meere Gipsey,And this the noble Bodie.  I am sotted,Vtterly lost: My Virgins faith has fled me;For if my brother but even now had ask'd meWhether I lov'd, I had run mad for Arcite;Now, if my Sister, More for Palamon.Stand both together: Now, come aske me, Brother.--Alas, I know not!  Aske me now, sweet Sister;--I may goe looke.  What a meere child is Fancie,That, having two faire gawdes of equall sweetnesse,Cannot distinguish, but must crie for both.[Enter (a) Gent(leman.)]EMILIA.How now, Sir?GENTLEMAN.From the Noble Duke your Brother,Madam, I bring you newes: The Knights are come.EMILIA.To end the quarrell?GENTLEMAN.Yes.EMILIA.Would I might end first:What sinnes have I committed, chast Diana,That my unspotted youth must now be soyldWith blood of Princes? and my ChastitieBe made the Altar, where the lives of Lovers(Two greater and two better never yetMade mothers joy) must be the sacrificeTo my unhappy Beautie?[Enter Theseus, Hipolita, Perithous and attendants.]THESEUS.Bring 'em inQuickly, By any meanes; I long to see 'em.--Your two contending Lovers are return'd,And with them their faire Knights: Now, my faire Sister,You must love one of them.EMILIA.I had rather both,So neither for my sake should fall untimely.[Enter Messenger.  (Curtis.)]THESEUS.Who saw 'em?PERITHOUS.I, a while.GENTLEMAN.And I.THESEUS.From whence come you, Sir?MESSENGER.From the Knights.THESEUS.Pray, speake,You that have seene them, what they are.MESSENGER.I will, Sir,And truly what I thinke: Six braver spiritsThen these they have brought, (if we judge by the outside)I never saw, nor read of.  He that standsIn the first place with Arcite, by his seeming,Should be a stout man, by his face a Prince,(His very lookes so say him) his complexion,Nearer a browne, than blacke, sterne, and yet noble,Which shewes him hardy, fearelesse, proud of dangers:The circles of his eyes show fire within him,And as a heated Lyon, so he lookes;His haire hangs long behind him, blacke and shiningLike Ravens wings: his shoulders broad and strong,Armd long and round, and on his Thigh a SwordHung by a curious Bauldricke, when he frownesTo seale his will with: better, o'my conscienceWas never Souldiers friend.THESEUS.Thou ha'st well describde him.PERITHOUS.Yet a great deale short,Me thinkes, of him that's first with Palamon.THESEUS.Pray, speake him, friend.PERITHOUS.I ghesse he is a Prince too,And, if it may be, greater; for his showHas all the ornament of honour in't:Hee's somewhat bigger, then the Knight he spoke of,But of a face far sweeter; His complexionIs (as a ripe grape) ruddy: he has felt,Without doubt, what he fights for, and so apterTo make this cause his owne: In's face appearesAll the faire hopes of what he undertakes,And when he's angry, then a setled valour(Not tainted with extreames) runs through his body,And guides his arme to brave things: Feare he cannot,He shewes no such soft temper; his head's yellow,Hard hayr'd, and curld, thicke twind like Ivy tods,Not to undoe with thunder; In his faceThe liverie of the warlike Maide appeares,Pure red, and white, for yet no beard has blest him.And in his rowling eyes sits victory,As if she ever ment to court his valour:His Nose stands high, a Character of honour.His red lips, after fights, are fit for Ladies.EMILIA.Must these men die too?PERITHOUS.When he speakes, his tongueSounds like a Trumpet; All his lyneamentsAre as a man would wish 'em, strong and cleane,He weares a well-steeld Axe, the staffe of gold;His age some five and twenty.MESSENGER.Ther's another,A little man, but of a tough soule, seemingAs great as any: fairer promisesIn such a Body yet I never look'd on.PERITHOUS.O, he that's freckle fac'd?MESSENGER.The same, my Lord;Are they not sweet ones?PERITHOUS.Yes, they are well.MESSENGER.Me thinkes,Being so few, and well disposd, they showGreat, and fine art in nature: he's white hair'd,Not wanton white, but such a manly colourNext to an aborne; tough, and nimble set,Which showes an active soule; his armes are brawny,Linde with strong sinewes: To the shoulder peeceGently they swell, like women new conceav'd,Which speakes him prone to labour, never faintingVnder the waight of Armes; stout harted, still,But when he stirs, a Tiger; he's gray eyd,Which yeelds compassion where he conquers: sharpeTo spy advantages, and where he finds 'em,He's swift to make 'em his: He do's no wrongs,Nor takes none; he's round fac'd, and when he smilesHe showes a Lover, when he frownes, a Souldier:About his head he weares the winners oke,And in it stucke the favour of his Lady:His age, some six and thirtie.  In his handHe beares a charging Staffe, embost with silver.THESEUS.Are they all thus?PERITHOUS.They are all the sonnes of honour.THESEUS.Now, as I have a soule, I long to see'em.Lady, you shall see men fight now.HIPPOLITA.I wish it,But not the cause, my Lord; They would showBravely about the Titles of two Kingdomes;Tis pitty Love should be so tyrannous:O my soft harted Sister, what thinke you?Weepe not, till they weepe blood, Wench; it must be.THESEUS.You have steel'd 'em with your Beautie.--Honord Friend,To you I give the Feild; pray, order itFitting the persons that must use it.PERITHOUS.Yes, Sir.THESEUS.Come, Ile goe visit 'em: I cannot stay,Their fame has fir'd me so; Till they appeare.Good Friend, be royall.PERITHOUS.There shall want no bravery.EMILIA.Poore wench, goe weepe, for whosoever wins,Looses a noble Cosen for thy sins.  [Exeunt.]Scaena 3.  (A room in the prison.)[Enter Iailor, Wooer, Doctor.]DOCTOR.Her distraction is more at some time of the Moone, then at othersome, is it not?IAILOR.She is continually in a harmelesse distemper, sleepes little,altogether without appetite, save often drinking, dreaming ofanother world, and a better; and what broken peece of matterso'ere she's about, the name Palamon lardes it, that she farcesev'ry busines withall, fyts it to every question.--[Enter Daughter.]Looke where shee comes, you shall perceive her behaviour.DAUGHTER.I have forgot it quite; The burden on't, was DOWNE A, DOWNE A,and pend by no worse man, then Giraldo, Emilias Schoolemaster;he's as Fantasticall too, as ever he may goe upon's legs,--forin the next world will Dido see Palamon, and then will she beout of love with Eneas.DOCTOR.What stuff's here? pore soule!IAILOR.Ev'n thus all day long.DAUGHTER.Now for this Charme, that I told you of: you must bring a peeceof silver on the tip of your tongue, or no ferry: then, if it beyour chance to come where the blessed spirits, as ther's a sightnow--we maids that have our Lyvers perish'd, crakt to peeces withLove, we shall come there, and doe nothing all day long but pickeflowers with Proserpine; then will I make Palamon a Nosegay; thenlet him marke me,--then--DOCTOR.How prettily she's amisse? note her a little further.DAUGHTER.Faith, ile tell you, sometime we goe to Barly breake, we of theblessed; alas, tis a sore life they have i'th other place, suchburning, frying, boyling, hissing, howling, chattring, cursing,oh they have shrowd measure! take heede; if one be mad, or hangor drowne themselves, thither they goe, Iupiter blesse vs, andthere shall we be put in a Caldron of lead, and Vsurers grease,amongst a whole million of cutpurses, and there boyle like aGamonof Bacon that will never be enough.  [Exit.]DOCTOR.How her braine coynes!DAUGHTER.Lords and Courtiers, that have got maids with Child, they are inthis place: they shall stand in fire up to the Nav'le, and in yceup to'th hart, and there th'offending part burnes, and thedeceaving part freezes; in troth, a very greevous punishment, asone would thinke, for such a Trifle; beleve me, one would marry aleaprous witch, to be rid on't, Ile assure you.DOCTOR.How she continues this fancie!  Tis not an engraffed Madnesse,but a most thicke, and profound mellencholly.DAUGHTER.To heare there a proud Lady, and a proud Citty wiffe, howletogether! I were a beast and il'd call it good sport: one cries,'O this smoake!' another, 'this fire!'  One cries, 'O, that everI did it behind the arras!' and then howles; th'other curses asuing fellow and her garden house.  [Sings]  I will be true, mystars, my fate, &c.  [Exit Daugh.]IAILOR.What thinke you of her, Sir?DOCTOR.I thinke she has a perturbed minde, which I cannot minister to.IAILOR.Alas, what then?DOCTOR.Vnderstand you, she ever affected any man, ere she beheldPalamon?IAILOR.I was once, Sir, in great hope she had fixd her liking on thisgentleman, my friend.WOOER.I did thinke so too, and would account I had a great pen-worthon't, to give halfe my state, that both she and I at this presentstood unfainedly on the same tearmes.DOCTOR.That intemprat surfeit of her eye hath distemperd the other sences:they may returne and settle againe to execute their preordaindfaculties, but they are now in a most extravagant vagary.  Thisyou must doe: Confine her to a place, where the light may ratherseeme to steale in, then be permitted; take vpon you (yong Sir,her friend) the name of Palamon; say you come to eate with her,and to commune of Love; this will catch her attention, for thisher minde beates upon; other objects that are inserted tweene herminde and eye become the prankes and friskins of her madnes; Singto her such greene songs of Love, as she sayes Palamon hath sungin prison; Come to her, stucke in as sweet flowers as the seasonis mistres of, and thereto make an addition of som other compoundedodours, which are grateful to the sence: all this shall becomePalamon, for Palamon can sing, and Palamon is sweet, and ev'rygood thing: desire to eate with her, carve her, drinke to her,and still among, intermingle your petition of grace and acceptanceinto her favour: Learne what Maides have beene her companions andplay-pheeres, and let them repaire to her with Palamon in theirmouthes, and appeare with tokens, as if they suggested for him.It is a falsehood she is in, which is with falsehood to be combated.This may bring her to eate, to sleepe, and reduce what's now outof square in her, into their former law, and regiment; I have seeneit approved, how many times I know not, but to make the number more,I have great hope in this.  I will, betweene the passages of thisproject, come in with my applyance: Let us put it in execution,and hasten the successe, which, doubt not, will bring forthcomfort.  [Florish.  Exeunt.]Actus QuintusScaena 1.  (Before the Temples of Mars, Venus, and Diana.)[Enter Thesius, Perithous, Hipolita, attendants.]THESEUS.Now let'em enter, and before the godsTender their holy prayers: Let the TemplesBurne bright with sacred fires, and the AltarsIn hallowed clouds commend their swelling IncenseTo those above us: Let no due be wanting;  [Florish of Cornets.]They have a noble worke in hand, will honourThe very powers that love 'em.[Enter Palamon and Arcite, and their Knights.]PERITHOUS.Sir, they enter.THESEUS.You valiant and strong harted Enemies,You royall German foes, that this day comeTo blow that furnesse out that flames betweene ye:Lay by your anger for an houre, and dove-like,Before the holy Altars of your helpers,(The all feard gods) bow downe your stubborne bodies.Your ire is more than mortall; So your helpe be,And as the gods regard ye, fight with Iustice;Ile leave you to your prayers, and betwixt yeI part my wishes.PERITHOUS.Honour crowne the worthiest.  [Exit Theseus, and his traine.]PALAMON.The glasse is running now that cannot finishTill one of us expire: Thinke you but thus,That were there ought in me which strove to showMine enemy in this businesse, wer't one eyeAgainst another, Arme opprest by Arme,I would destroy th'offender, Coz, I would,Though parcell of my selfe: Then from this gatherHow I should tender you.ARCITE.I am in labourTo push your name, your auncient love, our kindredOut of my memory; and i'th selfe same placeTo seate something I would confound: So hoyst weThe sayles, that must these vessells port even whereThe heavenly Lymiter pleases.PALAMON.You speake well;Before I turne, Let me embrace thee, Cosen:This I shall never doe agen.ARCITE.One farewell.PALAMON.Why, let it be so: Farewell, Coz.  [Exeunt Palamon and hisKnights.]ARCITE.Farewell, Sir.--Knights, Kinsemen, Lovers, yea, my Sacrifices,True worshippers of Mars, whose spirit in youExpells the seedes of feare, and th'apprehensionWhich still is farther off it, Goe with meBefore the god of our profession: ThereRequire of him the hearts of Lyons, andThe breath of Tigers, yea, the fearcenesse too,Yea, the speed also,--to goe on, I meane,Else wish we to be Snayles: you know my prizeMust be drag'd out of blood; force and great feateMust put my Garland on, where she stickesThe Queene of Flowers: our intercession thenMust be to him that makes the Campe a CestronBrymd with the blood of men: give me your aideAnd bend your spirits towards him.  [They kneele.]Thou mighty one, that with thy power hast turndGreene Neptune into purple, (whose Approach)Comets prewarne, whose havocke in vaste FeildVnearthed skulls proclaime, whose breath blowes downe,The teeming Ceres foyzon, who doth pluckeWith hand armypotent from forth blew clowdesThe masond Turrets, that both mak'st and break'stThe stony girthes of Citties: me thy puple,Yongest follower of thy Drom, instruct this dayWith military skill, that to thy lawdeI may advance my Streamer, and by thee,Be stil'd the Lord o'th day: give me, great Mars,Some token of thy pleasure.[Here they fall on their faces as formerly, and there is heard clanging of Armor, with a short Thunder as the burst of aBattaile, whereupon they all rise and bow to the Altar.]O Great Corrector of enormous times,Shaker of ore-rank States, thou grand deciderOf dustie and old tytles, that healst with bloodThe earth when it is sicke, and curst the worldO'th pluresie of people; I doe takeThy signes auspiciously, and in thy nameTo my designe march boldly.  Let us goe.  [Exeunt.][Enter Palamon and his Knights, with the former observance.]PALAMON.Our stars must glister with new fire, or beTo daie extinct; our argument is love,Which if the goddesse of it grant, she givesVictory too: then blend your spirits with mine,You, whose free noblenesse doe make my causeYour personall hazard; to the goddesse VenusCommend we our proceeding, and imploreHer power unto our partie.  [Here they kneele as formerly.]Haile, Soveraigne Queene of secrets, who hast powerTo call the feircest Tyrant from his rage,And weepe unto a Girle; that ha'st the might,Even with an ey-glance, to choke Marsis DromAnd turne th'allarme to whispers; that canst makeA Criple florish with his Crutch, and cure himBefore Apollo; that may'st force the KingTo be his subjects vassaile, and induceStale gravitie to daunce; the pould Bachelour--Whose youth, like wonton Boyes through Bonfyres,Have skipt thy flame--at seaventy thou canst catchAnd make him, to the scorne of his hoarse throate,Abuse yong laies of love: what godlike powerHast thou not power upon?  To Phoebus thouAdd'st flames hotter then his; the heavenly fyresDid scortch his mortall Son, thine him; the huntresseAll moyst and cold, some say, began to throwHer Bow away, and sigh.  Take to thy graceMe, thy vowd Souldier, who doe beare thy yokeAs t'wer a wreath of Roses, yet is heavierThen Lead it selfe, stings more than Nettles.I have never beene foule mouthd against thy law,Nev'r reveald secret, for I knew none--would not,Had I kend all that were; I never practisedVpon mans wife, nor would the Libells readeOf liberall wits; I never at great feastesSought to betray a Beautie, but have blush'dAt simpring Sirs that did; I have beene harshTo large Confessors, and have hotly ask'd themIf they had Mothers: I had one, a woman,And women t'wer they wrong'd.  I knew a manOf eightie winters, this I told them, whoA Lasse of foureteene brided; twas thy powerTo put life into dust; the aged CrampeHad screw'd his square foote round,The Gout had knit his fingers into knots,Torturing Convulsions from his globie eyes,Had almost drawne their spheeres, that what was lifeIn him seem'd torture: this AnatomieHad by his yong faire pheare a Boy, and IBeleev'd it was him, for she swore it was,And who would not beleeve her? briefe, I amTo those that prate and have done no Companion;To those that boast and have not a defyer;To those that would and cannot a Rejoycer.Yea, him I doe not love, that tells close officesThe fowlest way, nor names concealements inThe boldest language: such a one I am,And vow that lover never yet made sighTruer then I.  O, then, most soft, sweet goddesse,Give me the victory of this question, whichIs true loves merit, and blesse me with a signeOf thy great pleasure.[Here Musicke is heard, Doves are seene to flutter; they fall againe upon their faces, then on their knees.]PALAMON.O thou, that from eleven to ninetie raign'stIn mortall bosomes, whose chase is this world,And we in heards thy game: I give thee thankesFor this faire Token, which, being layd untoMine innocent true heart, armes in assurance  [They bow.]My body to this businesse.  Let us riseAnd bow before the goddesse: Time comes on.  [Exeunt.][Still Musicke of Records.][Enter Emilia in white, her haire about her shoulders, (wearing) a wheaten wreath: One in white holding up her traine, her haire stucke with flowers: One before her carrying a silver Hynde, in which is conveyd Incense and sweet odours, which being set upon the Altar (of Diana) her maides standing a loofe, she sets fire to it; then they curtsey and kneele.]EMILIA.O sacred, shadowie, cold and constant Queene,Abandoner of Revells, mute, contemplative,Sweet, solitary, white as chaste, and pureAs windefand Snow, who to thy femall knightsAlow'st no more blood than will make a blush,Which is their orders robe: I heere, thy Priest,Am humbled fore thine Altar; O vouchsafe,With that thy rare greene eye, which never yetBeheld thing maculate, looke on thy virgin;And, sacred silver Mistris, lend thine eare(Which nev'r heard scurrill terme, into whose portNe're entred wanton found,) to my petitionSeasond with holy feare: This is my lastOf vestall office; I am bride habited,But mayden harted, a husband I have pointed,But doe not know him; out of two I shouldChoose one and pray for his successe, but IAm guiltlesse of election: of mine eyes,Were I to loose one, they are equall precious,I could doombe neither, that which perish'd shouldGoe too't unsentenc'd: Therefore, most modest Queene,He of the two Pretenders, that best loves meAnd has the truest title in't, Let himTake off my wheaten Gerland, or else grantThe fyle and qualitie I hold, I mayContinue in thy Band.[Here the Hynde vanishes under the Altar: and in the place ascends a Rose Tree, having one Rose upon it.]See what our Generall of Ebbs and FlowesOut from the bowells of her holy AltarWith sacred act advances!  But one Rose:If well inspird, this Battaile shal confoundBoth these brave Knights, and I, a virgin flowreMust grow alone unpluck'd.[Here is heard a sodaine twang of Instruments, and the Rose fals\ from the Tree (which vanishes under the altar.)]The flowre is falne, the Tree descends: O, Mistris,Thou here dischargest me; I shall be gather'd:I thinke so, but I know not thine owne will;Vnclaspe thy Misterie.--I hope she's pleas'd,Her Signes were gratious.  [They curtsey and Exeunt.]Scaena 2.  (A darkened Room in the Prison.)[Enter Doctor, Iaylor and Wooer, in habite of Palamon.]DOCTOR.Has this advice I told you, done any good upon her?WOOER.O very much; The maids that kept her companyHave halfe perswaded her that I am Palamon;Within this halfe houre she came smiling to me,And asked me what I would eate, and when I would kisse her:I told her presently, and kist her twice.DOCTOR.Twas well done; twentie times had bin far better,For there the cure lies mainely.WOOER.Then she told meShe would watch with me to night, for well she knewWhat houre my fit would take me.DOCTOR.Let her doe so,And when your fit comes, fit her home,And presently.WOOER.She would have me sing.DOCTOR.You did so?WOOER.No.DOCTOR.Twas very ill done, then;You should observe her ev'ry way.WOOER.Alas,I have no voice, Sir, to confirme her that way.DOCTOR.That's all one, if yee make a noyse;If she intreate againe, doe any thing,--Lye with her, if she aske you.IAILOR.Hoa, there, Doctor!DOCTOR.Yes, in the waie of cure.IAILOR.But first, by your leave,I'th way of honestie.DOCTOR.That's but a nicenesse,Nev'r cast your child away for honestie;Cure her first this way, then if shee will be honest,She has the path before her.IAILOR.Thanke yee, Doctor.DOCTOR.Pray, bring her in,And let's see how shee is.IAILOR.I will, and tell herHer Palamon staies for her: But, Doctor,Me thinkes you are i'th wrong still.  [Exit Iaylor.]DOCTOR.Goe, goe:You Fathers are fine Fooles: her honesty?And we should give her physicke till we finde that--WOOER.Why, doe you thinke she is not honest, Sir?DOCTOR.How old is she?WOOER.She's eighteene.DOCTOR.She may be,But that's all one; tis nothing to our purpose.What ere her Father saies, if you perceaveHer moode inclining that way that I spoke of,Videlicet, the way of flesh--you have me?WOOER.Yet, very well, Sir.DOCTOR.Please her appetite,And doe it home; it cures her, ipso facto,The mellencholly humour that infects her.WOOER.I am of your minde, Doctor.[Enter Iaylor, Daughter, Maide.]DOCTOR.You'l finde it so; she comes, pray humour her.IAILOR.Come, your Love Palamon staies for you, childe,And has done this long houre, to visite you.DAUGHTER.I thanke him for his gentle patience;He's a kind Gentleman, and I am much bound to him.Did you nev'r see the horse he gave me?IAILOR.Yes.DAUGHTER.How doe you like him?IAILOR.He's a very faire one.DAUGHTER.You never saw him dance?IAILOR.No.DAUGHTER.I have often.He daunces very finely, very comely,And for a Iigge, come cut and long taile to him,He turnes ye like a Top.IAILOR.That's fine, indeede.DAUGHTER.Hee'l dance the Morris twenty mile an houre,And that will founder the best hobby-horse(If I have any skill) in all the parish,And gallops to the turne of LIGHT A' LOVE:What thinke you of this horse?IAILOR.Having these vertues,I thinke he might be broght to play at Tennis.DAUGHTER.Alas, that's nothing.IAILOR.Can he write and reade too?DAUGHTER.A very faire hand, and casts himselfe th'accountsOf all his hay and provender: That HostlerMust rise betime that cozens him.  You knowThe Chestnut Mare the Duke has?IAILOR.Very well.DAUGHTER.She is horribly in love with him, poore beast,But he is like his master, coy and scornefull.IAILOR.What dowry has she?DAUGHTER.Some two hundred Bottles,And twenty strike of Oates; but hee'l ne're have her;He lispes in's neighing, able to enticeA Millars Mare: Hee'l be the death of her.DOCTOR.What stuffe she utters!IAILOR.Make curtsie; here your love comes.WOOER.Pretty soule,How doe ye? that's a fine maide, ther's a curtsie!DAUGHTER.Yours to command ith way of honestie.How far is't now to'th end o'th world, my Masters?DOCTOR.Why, a daies Iorney, wench.DAUGHTER.Will you goe with me?WOOER.What shall we doe there, wench?DAUGHTER.Why, play at stoole ball:What is there else to doe?WOOER.I am content,If we shall keepe our wedding there.DAUGHTER.Tis true:For there, I will assure you, we shall findeSome blind Priest for the purpose, that will ventureTo marry us, for here they are nice, and foolish;Besides, my father must be hang'd to morrowAnd that would be a blot i'th businesse.Are not you Palamon?WOOER.Doe not you know me?DAUGHTER.Yes, but you care not for me; I have nothingBut this pore petticoate, and too corse Smockes.WOOER.That's all one; I will have you.DAUGHTER.Will you surely?WOOER.Yes, by this faire hand, will I.DAUGHTER.Wee'l to bed, then.WOOER.Ev'n when you will.  [Kisses her.]DAUGHTER.O Sir, you would faine be nibling.WOOER.Why doe you rub my kisse off?DAUGHTER.Tis a sweet one,And will perfume me finely against the wedding.Is not this your Cosen Arcite?DOCTOR.Yes, sweet heart,And I am glad my Cosen PalamonHas made so faire a choice.DAUGHTER.Doe you thinke hee'l have me?DOCTOR.Yes, without doubt.DAUGHTER.Doe you thinke so too?IAILOR.Yes.DAUGHTER.We shall have many children:--Lord, how y'ar growne!My Palamon, I hope, will grow, too, finely,Now he's at liberty: Alas, poore Chicken,He was kept downe with hard meate and ill lodging,But ile kisse him up againe.[Emter a Messenger.]MESSENGER.What doe you here? you'l loose the noblest sightThat ev'r was seene.IAILOR.Are they i'th Field?MESSENGER.They are.You beare a charge there too.IAILOR.Ile away straight.I must ev'n leave you here.DOCTOR.Nay, wee'l goe with you;I will not loose the Fight.IAILOR.How did you like her?DOCTOR.Ile warrant you, within these 3. or 4. daiesIle make her right againe.  You must not from her,But still preserve her in this way.WOOER.I will.DOCTOR.Lets get her in.WOOER.Come, sweete, wee'l goe to dinner;And then weele play at Cardes.DAUGHTER.And shall we kisse too?WOOER.A hundred times.DAUGHTER.And twenty.WOOER.I, and twenty.DAUGHTER.And then wee'l sleepe together.DOCTOR.Take her offer.WOOER.Yes, marry, will we.DAUGHTER.But you shall not hurt me.WOOER.I will not, sweete.DAUGHTER.If you doe, Love, ile cry.  [Florish.  Exeunt]Scaena 3.  (A Place near the Lists.)[Enter Theseus, Hipolita, Emilia, Perithous: and some Attendants, (T. Tucke: Curtis.)]EMILIA.Ile no step further.PERITHOUS.Will you loose this sight?EMILIA.I had rather see a wren hawke at a flyThen this decision; ev'ry blow that fallsThreats a brave life, each stroake lamentsThe place whereon it fals, and sounds more likeA Bell then blade: I will stay here;It is enough my hearing shall be punishdWith what shall happen--gainst the which there isNo deaffing, but to heare--not taint mine eyeWith dread sights, it may shun.PERITHOUS.Sir, my good Lord,Your Sister will no further.THESEUS.Oh, she must.She shall see deeds of honour in their kinde,Which sometime show well, pencild.  Nature nowShall make and act the Story, the beleifeBoth seald with eye and eare; you must be present,You are the victours meede, the price, and garlondTo crowne the Questions title.EMILIA.Pardon me;If I were there, I'ld winke.THESEUS.You must be there;This Tryall is as t'wer i'th night, and youThe onely star to shine.EMILIA.I am extinct;There is but envy in that light, which showesThe one the other: darkenes, which ever wasThe dam of horrour, who do's stand accurstOf many mortall Millions, may even now,By casting her blacke mantle over both,That neither coulde finde other, get her selfeSome part of a good name, and many a murtherSet off wherto she's guilty.HIPPOLITA.You must goe.EMILIA.In faith, I will not.THESEUS.Why, the knights must kindleTheir valour at your eye: know, of this warYou are the Treasure, and must needes be byTo give the Service pay.EMILIA.Sir, pardon me;The tytle of a kingdome may be trideOut of it selfe.THESEUS.Well, well, then, at your pleasure;Those that remaine with you could wish their officeTo any of their Enemies.HIPPOLITA.Farewell, Sister;I am like to know your husband fore your selfeBy some small start of time: he whom the godsDoe of the two know best, I pray them heBe made your Lot.[Exeunt Theseus, Hipolita, Perithous, &c.]EMILIA.Arcite is gently visagd; yet his eyeIs like an Engyn bent, or a sharpe weaponIn a soft sheath; mercy and manly courageAre bedfellowes in his visage.  PalamonHas a most menacing aspect: his browIs grav'd, and seemes to bury what it frownes on;Yet sometime tis not so, but alters toThe quallity of his thoughts; long time his eyeWill dwell upon his object.  MellenchollyBecomes him nobly; So do's Arcites mirth,But Palamons sadnes is a kinde of mirth,So mingled, as if mirth did make him sad,And sadnes, merry; those darker humours thatSticke misbecomingly on others, on themLive in faire dwelling.  [Cornets.  Trompets sound as to acharge.]Harke, how yon spurs to spirit doe inciteThe Princes to their proofe! Arcite may win me,And yet may Palamon wound Arcite toThe spoyling of his figure.  O, what pittyEnough for such a chance; if I were by,I might doe hurt, for they would glance their eiesToward my Seat, and in that motion mightOmit a ward, or forfeit an offenceWhich crav'd that very time: it is much betterI am not there; oh better never borneThen minister to such harme.  [Cornets.  A great cry and noice within, crying 'a Palamon'.]  What is the chance?[Enter Servant.]SERVANT.The Crie's 'a Palamon'.EMILIA.Then he has won!  Twas ever likely;He lookd all grace and successe, and he isDoubtlesse the prim'st of men: I pre'thee, runAnd tell me how it goes.  [Showt, and Cornets: Crying, 'aPalamon.']SERVANT.Still Palamon.EMILIA.Run and enquire.  Poore Servant, thou hast lost;Vpon my right side still I wore thy picture,Palamons on the left: why so, I know not;I had no end in't else, chance would have it so.On the sinister side the heart lyes; PalamonHad the best boding chance.  [Another cry, and showt within, and Cornets.]  This burst of clamourIs sure th'end o'th Combat.[Enter Servant.]SERVANT.They saide that Palamon had Arcites bodyWithin an inch o'th Pyramid, that the cryWas generall 'a Palamon': But, anon,Th'Assistants made a brave redemption, andThe two bold Tytlers, at this instant areHand to hand at it.EMILIA.Were they metamorphisdBoth into one! oh why? there were no womanWorth so composd a Man: their single share,Their noblenes peculier to them, givesThe prejudice of disparity, values shortnes,  [Cornets.  Cry within, Arcite, Arcite.]To any Lady breathing--More exulting?Palamon still?SERVANT.Nay, now the sound is Arcite.EMILIA.I pre'thee, lay attention to the Cry,  [Cornets.  A great showt and cry, 'Arcite, victory!']Set both thine eares to'th busines.SERVANT.The cry is'Arcite', and 'victory', harke: 'Arcite, victory!'The Combats consummation is proclaim'dBy the wind Instruments.EMILIA.Halfe sights sawThat Arcite was no babe; god's lyd, his richnesAnd costlines of spirit look't through him, it couldNo more be hid in him then fire in flax,Then humble banckes can goe to law with waters,That drift windes force to raging: I did thinkeGood Palamon would miscarry; yet I knew notWhy I did thinke so; Our reasons are not prophets,When oft our fancies are.  They are comming off:Alas, poore Palamon!  [Cornets.][Enter Theseus, Hipolita, Pirithous, Arcite as victor, and attendants, &c.]THESEUS.Lo, where our Sister is in expectation,Yet quaking, and unsetled.--Fairest Emily,The gods by their divine arbitramentHave given you this Knight; he is a good oneAs ever strooke at head.  Give me your hands;Receive you her, you him; be plighted withA love that growes, as you decay.ARCITE.Emily,To buy you, I have lost what's deerest to me,Save what is bought, and yet I purchase cheapely,As I doe rate your value.THESEUS.O loved Sister,He speakes now of as brave a Knight as ereDid spur a noble Steed: Surely, the godsWould have him die a Batchelour, least his raceShould shew i'th world too godlike: His behaviourSo charmed me, that me thought Alcides wasTo him a sow of lead: if I could praiseEach part of him to'th all I have spoke, your ArciteDid not loose by't; For he that was thus goodEncountred yet his Better.  I have heardTwo emulous Philomels beate the eare o'th nightWith their contentious throates, now one the higher,Anon the other, then againe the first,And by and by out breasted, that the senceCould not be judge betweene 'em: So it far'dGood space betweene these kinesmen; till heavens didMake hardly one the winner.  Weare the GirlondWith joy that you have won: For the subdude,Give them our present Iustice, since I knowTheir lives but pinch 'em; Let it here be done.The Sceane's not for our seeing, goe we hence,Right joyfull, with some sorrow.--Arme your prize,I know you will not loose her.--Hipolita,I see one eye of yours conceives a teareThe which it will deliver.  [Florish.]EMILIA.Is this wynning?Oh all you heavenly powers, where is your mercy?But that your wils have saide it must be so,And charge me live to comfort this unfriended,This miserable Prince, that cuts awayA life more worthy from him then all women,I should, and would, die too.HIPPOLITA.Infinite pitty,That fowre such eies should be so fixd on oneThat two must needes be blinde fort.THESEUS.So it is.  [Exeunt.]Scaena 4.  (The same; a Block prepared.)[Enter Palamon and his Knightes pyniond: Iaylor, Executioner, &c.  Gard.](PALAMON.)Ther's many a man alive that hath out liv'dThe love o'th people; yea, i'th selfesame stateStands many a Father with his childe; some comfortWe have by so considering: we expireAnd not without mens pitty.  To live still,Have their good wishes; we preventThe loathsome misery of age, beguileThe Gowt and Rheume, that in lag howres attendFor grey approachers; we come towards the godsYong and unwapper'd, not halting under CrymesMany and stale: that sure shall please the gods,Sooner than such, to give us Nectar with 'em,For we are more cleare Spirits.  My deare kinesmen,Whose lives (for this poore comfort) are laid downe,You have sould 'em too too cheape.1. KNIGHT.What ending could beOf more content? ore us the victors haveFortune, whose title is as momentary,As to us death is certaine: A graine of honourThey not ore'-weigh us.2. KNIGHT.Let us bid farewell;And with our patience anger tottring Fortune,Who at her certain'st reeles.3. KNIGHT.Come; who begins?PALAMON.Ev'n he that led you to this Banket shallTaste to you all.--Ah ha, my Friend, my Friend,Your gentle daughter gave me freedome once;You'l see't done now for ever: pray, how do'es she?I heard she was not well; her kind of illGave me some sorrow.IAILOR.Sir, she's well restor'd,And to be marryed shortly.PALAMON.By my short life,I am most glad on't; Tis the latest thingI shall be glad of; pre'thee tell her so:Commend me to her, and to peece her portion,Tender her this.  [Gives purse.]1. KNIGHT.Nay lets be offerers all.2. KNIGHT.Is it a maide?PALAMON.Verily, I thinke so,A right good creature, more to me deservingThen I can quight or speake of.ALL KNIGHTS.Commend us to her.  [They give their purses.]IAILOR.The gods requight you all,And make her thankefull.PALAMON.Adiew; and let my life be now as short,As my leave taking.  [Lies on the Blocke.]1. KNIGHT.Leade, couragious Cosin.2. KNIGHT.Wee'l follow cheerefully.  [A great noise within crying, 'run, save, hold!'][Enter in hast a Messenger.]MESSENGER.Hold, hold!  O hold, hold, hold![Enter Pirithous in haste.]PERITHOUS.Hold! hoa!  It is a cursed hast you made,If you have done so quickly.  Noble Palamon,The gods will shew their glory in a life,That thou art yet to leade.PALAMON.Can that be,When Venus, I have said, is false?  How doe things fare?PERITHOUS.Arise, great Sir, and give the tydings eareThat are most dearly sweet and bitter.PALAMON.WhatHath wakt us from our dreame?PERITHOUS.List then: your Cosen,Mounted upon a Steed that EmilyDid first bestow on him, a blacke one, owingNot a hayre worth of white--which some will sayWeakens his price, and many will not buyHis goodnesse with this note: Which superstitionHeere findes allowance--On this horse is ArciteTrotting the stones of Athens, which the CalkinsDid rather tell then trample; for the horseWould make his length a mile, if't pleas'd his RiderTo put pride in him: as he thus went countingThe flinty pavement, dancing, as t'wer, to'th MusickeHis owne hoofes made; (for as they say from ironCame Musickes origen) what envious Flint,Cold as old Saturne, and like him possestWith fire malevolent, darted a Sparke,Or what feirce sulphur else, to this end made,I comment not;--the hot horse, hot as fire,Tooke Toy at this, and fell to what disorderHis power could give his will; bounds, comes on end,Forgets schoole dooing, being therein traind,And of kind mannadge; pig-like he whinesAt the sharpe Rowell, which he freats at ratherThen any jot obaies; seekes all foule meanesOf boystrous and rough Iadrie, to dis-seateHis Lord, that kept it bravely: when nought serv'd,When neither Curb would cracke, girth breake nor diffring plungesDis-roote his Rider whence he grew, but thatHe kept him tweene his legges, on his hind hoofes on end he stands,That Arcites leggs, being higher then his head,Seem'd with strange art to hand: His victors wreathEven then fell off his head: and presentlyBackeward the Iade comes ore, and his full poyzeBecomes the Riders loade: yet is he living,But such a vessell tis, that floates but forThe surge that next approaches: he much desiresTo have some speech with you: Loe he appeares.[Enter Theseus, Hipolita, Emilia, Arcite in a chaire.]PALAMON.O miserable end of our alliance!The gods are mightie, Arcite: if thy heart,Thy worthie, manly heart, be yet unbroken,Give me thy last words; I am Palamon,One that yet loves thee dying.ARCITE.Take EmiliaAnd with her all the worlds joy: Reach thy hand:Farewell: I have told my last houre.  I was false,Yet never treacherous: Forgive me, Cosen:--One kisse from faire Emilia: Tis done:Take her: I die.PALAMON.Thy brave soule seeke Elizium.EMILIA.Ile close thine eyes, Prince; blessed soules be with thee!Thou art a right good man, and while I live,This day I give to teares.PALAMON.And I to honour.THESEUS.In this place first you fought: ev'n very hereI sundred you: acknowledge to the godsOur thankes that you are living.His part is playd, and though it were too short,He did it well: your day is lengthned, andThe blissefull dew of heaven do's arowze you.The powerfull Venus well hath grac'd her Altar,And given you your love: Our Master MarsHath vouch'd his Oracle, and to Arcite gaveThe grace of the Contention: So the DeitiesHave shewd due justice: Beare this hence.PALAMON.O Cosen,That we should things desire, which doe cost usThe losse of our desire!  That nought could buyDeare love, but losse of deare love!THESEUS.Never FortuneDid play a subtler Game: The conquerd triumphes,The victor has the Losse: yet in the passageThe gods have beene most equall: Palamon,Your kinseman hath confest the right o'th LadyDid lye in you, for you first saw her, andEven then proclaimd your fancie: He restord herAs your stolne Iewell, and desir'd your spiritTo send him hence forgiven; The gods my justiceTake from my hand, and they themselves becomeThe Executioners: Leade your Lady off;And call your Lovers from the stage of death,Whom I adopt my Frinds.  A day or twoLet us looke sadly, and give grace untoThe Funerall of Arcite; in whose endThe visages of Bridegroomes weele put onAnd smile with Palamon; for whom an houre,But one houre, since, I was as dearely sorry,As glad of Arcite: and am now as glad,As for him sorry.  O you heavenly Charmers,What things you make of us!  For what we lackeWe laugh, for what we have, are sorry: stillAre children in some kind.  Let us be thankefullFor that which is, and with you leave disputeThat are above our question.  Let's goe off,And beare us like the time.  [Florish.  Exeunt.]EPILOGVEI would now aske ye how ye like the Play,But, as it is with Schoole Boyes, cannot say,I am cruell fearefull: pray, yet stay a while,And let me looke upon ye: No man smile?Then it goes hard, I see; He that hasLov'd a yong hansome wench, then, show his face--Tis strange if none be heere--and if he willAgainst his Conscience, let him hisse, and killOur Market: Tis in vaine, I see, to stay yee;Have at the worst can come, then!  Now what say ye?And yet mistake me not: I am not bold;We have no such cause.  If the tale we have told(For tis no other) any way content ye(For to that honest purpose it was ment ye)We have our end; and ye shall have ere long,I dare say, many a better, to prolongYour old loves to us: we, and all our mightRest at your service.  Gentlemen, good night.  [Florish.]FINIS